Thank you.
And our first question comes from Carlos Kirjner from Bernstein. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Hello. Thank you for taking my questions. I have a couple. First, Sundar, do you believe there's a non-trivial chance of Google and the DeepMind team achieving strong AI in the next five years or so?
And, secondly, on your revenues, can you tell us whether you feel the drivers of sites revenue growth and what seems to be an acceleration have legs and are more like improving user experience and advertising returns and less like increasing ad loads which one could argue have limited headway? Thank you.
Thanks, Carlos. I'll answer the first one, and turn it over to Ruth on the second. On AI, we are, obviously, seeing incredible progress in this field. We make great strides and we start taking it for granted and look to the years ahead. It's always tough to predict what happens over a five-year time frame, but I do see us making significant strides.
Even a year ago, I wouldn't have predicted that we would be in a strong position to mount a serious challenge to the world champion in Go this year. Looking at the pace of progress, I think we will have AI in a form in which it benefits a lot of users in the coming years, but I still think it's early days and this is a long-term investment for us.
And then on sites revenue, what the results reflect is product strength, geographic breadth and obviously, the added backdrop of an active holiday season with the sites revenue up 20% year-on-year, notwithstanding the currency impact. The way we look at it is we've got extraordinary capability and strength in Search and then ongoing innovation across the platform. As we talked about last quarter, we did benefit from a change made in Q3 in ad format with respect to Mobile Search and we do continue to benefit from that change.
Mobile Search growth was the biggest driver again this quarter. And then in terms of YouTube, the momentum continues, the story continues to be about strong growth in video advertising, TrueView and Google Preferred as distinct from display on YouTube. And then just to round it out, desktop search remains a solid contributor, as well.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you. And our next question comes from Eric Sheridan from UBS. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the questions. Maybe two on margins now that we have the new disclosure, and thanks for all of that information. With core Google, we saw a very nice operating margin improvement 2015 versus 2014. Wanted to know if we could get a little bit of color of what drove that, whether it was incremental revenue, pricing, cost efficiency, how you sort of think about what drove that?
And the opposite for Other Bets, clearly a bigger loss in 2015 versus 2014, maybe a little bit of color on the volatility, as you called it out, of how that might develop over time? Thank you.
Certainly. Starting with Other Bets, as I said in my prepared remarks, we're at the beginning of a journey with the creation of Alphabet and breaking this out into the segments is a meaningful step. As you look at some of the numbers, the reason I said it's more instructive to look at annual or rolling 12 months is that there can be some lumpy things on a quarterly basis, but we're continuing to invest across the businesses as we talked about.
So that would explain the 2014, 2015 trend here; it just underscores that we are investing in the business. We've made some tough choices, and as I said, in terms of you how we're allocating across the various businesses, but an important area for us and tried to give you the sizing here in the segment information. And then in terms of overall Google, we're continuing to invest there, as well.
We're investing quite meaningfully, as I previously said, the 70-20-10 model is an instructive framework that Larry has articulated for a long time. And as I tried to stress in my opening comments, we're looking to push the frontier both within Google and Other Bets. Ongoing innovation is key to all that we're doing in Google and it's benefiting users in the ecosystem broadly. So you're continuing to see us invest there and notwithstanding that you see the results that you have here today.
Thank you. And our next question comes from Heather Bellini from Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Great. Thank you. Sundar, thank you for the color on your initiatives with the cloud and we're all very excited about Diane Greene's hiring.
I was wondering if you could share with us when you're having conversations with corporate customers over the last 12 months, what were the biggest areas of change, or things that they said Google needed to work on in order to win over their cloud business versus, say, them choosing to go with an AWS or an Azure? Can you talk to us about how that change might progress and how we might see that filter through in 2016? Thank you.
Thanks, Heather. I'm very excited to have Diane here, as well. We are already getting significant traction. It's a strongly growing business for us and we plan to invest significantly in 2016.
It will be one of our major investment areas. In terms of talking to customers, first of all, as I said earlier, the cloud platform is now already used and trusted by over 4 million applications. And a lot of it is about making sure we are very seriously committed to this space, which we are, and in terms of wanting -- there's a breadth of feature requirements, and so we've been carefully taking customer feedback and addressing all those needs. And as time goes by, I think we are getting very competitive.
We have natural advantages in doing this, but we also need to make sure we address all the feature needs and that's what we've been focused on. I think we are at a point now where the product is ready to be used at scale, and so I expect to get significant traction in 2016.
Thank you.
Thank you. And our next question comes from Mark Mahaney from RBC Capital Markets. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Sundar, could you talk a little about -- provide any milestones for autonomous vehicles and Nest, they're two of the Other Bets that we're particularly intrigued by here. I know they're very long-term bets. The milestones that you've seen that kind of give you confidence in the forward direction of those businesses. Thank you.
I'll take that. Those are two of the businesses that are, as we call them, Other Bets. Look, on self-driving cars, we have an extraordinary tech team. We've been working on it for many years.
The focus is developing technology with a real emphasis on safety and understanding what it takes to build and operate fully autonomous vehicles. We continue to make great progress. We've now driven 1.3 million miles with important data regarding safety and utility and that's what we're really focused on. We've got prototypes on streets in two cities.
So we're continuing to execute against that and continuing to build it out. And then on Nest, we have now more than 14,000 developers who have joined the Works with Nest program, enabling them to connect with Nest products through the cloud. The team refreshed the entire product portfolio in 2015. That resulted in very strong year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter revenue growth, and again, similarly, they're just executing against that business plan.
Thank you, Ruth.
Thanks, Mark.
Thank you. And our next question comes from Justin Post from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Thank you. Ruth, I wonder if the you could give us a little more detail on the US acceleration? It's been pretty strong four quarters in a row. Is that YouTube and Search?
Any more detail on that would really be helpful, if those individual businesses have accelerated. And then on the Other Bets business, clearly -- and you've mentioned milestones a couple times. The losses have really increased over the last two quarters. Could you share any of those milestones with us? Thank you.
Sure. So starting with the US, I think the main point is that we've had meaningful growth in all geographies, reflecting the product strength and the added tailwind of the holiday season. And looking forward, we would expect typical seasonal patterns to hold to Q4. As you know well, it tends to be our strongest quarter.
Specifically on the US, that as we talked about last quarter, really reflects the diversity of our products here. Each is doing well. Mobile growth, as both Sundar and I talked about, was the key driver yet again. But YouTube and programmatic continue to deliver strong growth, and that translates into the results that you saw for the US. Obviously, we had a nice lift from retail, no surprise given the holiday season.
But I think simply put, it's the diversity doing a lot across a lot of different products. And then in terms of the milestones and your question regarding Other Bets, as I mentioned in opening comments, results this quarter were affected by project milestones. Those milestones were established several years ago, and that's why I called out that it could be lumpy on a quarterly basis and why we look at kind of year over rolling 12 months and not going to break it out in more detail than that.
As Larry said when we announced Alphabet, it's an exciting new chapter. It is about getting more ambitious things done. We're doing that in a framework to ensure we are disciplined with our resources. This was just calling out a milestone established some time ago.
Thank you.
Thank you. And our next question comes from Stephen Ju from Credit Suisse. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Thank you. Sundar, you just called out Gmail as the latest among your products to reach 1 billion users. I guess at this point you're explicitly monetizing Search, YouTube and Gmail to some degree, while some of the other products maybe they're a bit more nascent are still not monetized or under monetized it seems. Big picture as you look at the next billion users who are to come online and use your product, are you in any hurry to begin monetization at all?
And, Ruth, I think since you came on board CapEx is down basically every quarter. Granted fourth quarter of 2014 had the discretionary real estate purchase in there, but in your budgeting process for 2016 is the nature of what you're going to be spending money on changing much at all for core Google? And in regards to the CapEx for the Other Bets being primarily for Fiber, it seems like there's 6 upcoming cities and 11 potential cities. What is the greenlighting process for whether a city gets considered or not? Thanks.
I take a very long-term view towards this. When we look at the scale of mobile, for the first time in our lifetimes, I think we have a platform which is going to reach one day the entirety of the world's population. It will be over 5 billion users.
From our standpoint, core to our mission, we want to be in a position where we are helping users throughout the day. We are assisting users with their core information needs across all our products. And I think if you do that well, a lot of that information is commercial and hence our monetization works effectively as well as you've seen this year. And so very focused on long term, building that user experience to be assisting users and that's the framework with which we think about it.
And then in terms of CapEx, you noted the important difference on a year-over-year basis, a couple of sizable real estate items as part of our facilities expansion that we called out last year, on top of continued investment in our technical infrastructure. But really to the heart of your question, looking ahead for 2016, we do expect to see accelerated investment in CapEx and that's to support both Google and Other Bets.
As we often talk about, we view our technical infrastructure as a key strategic asset for the Company. We have terrific scale and efficiency, and the team has done an extraordinary job innovating to achieve efficiencies following a period of heavier investment in 2014. So we're now delivering about three times the compute power for the same amount of power or dollars we did five years ago, and that's an important point because it explains some of the slower CapEx in 2015.
But given our commitment to have the most potent infrastructure, we do expect to increase CapEx in 2016. And for Google, that is intended to continue to support growth in our consumer products and services globally, as well as all that we're doing for our enterprise clients, as Sundar has already talked about. So that CapEx in both areas there.
And then in terms of Fiber and what we're doing more broadly in Other Bets, Fiber will continue to be, we expect, the biggest consumer. And again, you identified the driver of it. It obviously, increases as we execute in a growing number of cities. One of the main things that also affected 2015 is the rollout was really measured as we worked to enhance the construction process and efficiency, doing things like developing relationships with cities and establishing protocol with construction partners. But we have more cities announced and, obviously, as we execute on those that takes more CapEx, as well.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you. And our next question comes from Douglas Anmuth from JPMorgan. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the questions. Two things. First, Sundar, if you could talk a little about YouTube? It's been several quarters now where you've talked about the mix shift toward true TrueView ads kind of bringing down the average CPC for sites. But can you talk about the trend that you're seeing there more on a like-for-like basis and whether in theory that should tighten up more relative to search ads going forward?
And then, secondly, Ruth, on the core Google business we've seen roughly 300 basis points of margin expansion here over the last year or so. I know you're talking, obviously, about the investments around cloud and machine learning. Do you think there is still potential there for profitability to improve in that segment? Thanks.
Well, let me start first on YouTube monetization. There's really no change from my comment last quarter. YouTube had very healthy revenue growth, again, driven by growth in TrueView and other video ads, but the monetization story is still evolving. It's still early innings and we're focused on the opportunity to get larger offline budgets moved to YouTube. Given the level of user engagement globally and the compelling nature of demographics it does remain a very attractive platform.
In the near term, given the growth in viewership, YouTube TrueView CPC pricing is expected to continue to affect our overall sites monetization mix. And then in terms of Google and margin outlook, I think, is really what you're getting at. I'll go back to my prior comment. What we achieved here by pulling out the two pieces is providing, obviously, greater visibility into what we're investing within the Other Bets, but want to underscore that we continue to invest in Google.
We're in early innings in many areas, and I already referenced back to the framework we used which is to continue to push the frontier within Google, as well to adjacent areas. You named one. We've talked about it on this call. It's very important, Cloud and Apps, and all that we're looking to invest there.
But we're doing more than that. It's also the moon shot areas, it's virtual reality, and other areas. And these are exciting early stage efforts we do expect we'll be in a position to discuss in greater detail over time. I'll let you estimate the short-term impact, but we believe the investment is really important as we're enhancing the long-term potential for Google and continuing to really enrich the ecosystem.
Okay, thank you.
Thank you. And our next question comes from Brian Nowak from Morgan Stanley. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking my questions. I have two. Just to go back to the YouTube comments you made, the progress in the living rooms and the progress of YouTube Red, can you just talk a little bit about how you think potentially going into more original scripted, longer form content, or even licensed longer-form content to go after an even larger share of offline ad budgets?
And then, secondly, on the Rest-of-World, can you just talk about what you're seeing in the emerging market CPCs on a constant currency basis? How big is that gap now between the emerging markets in the US, and how do you think about closing that longer term? Thanks.
Let me answer the YouTube question first. On YouTube, we have great momentum. We have over 1 billion users watching hundreds of millions of hours, and in fact, 80% of YouTube's views are from outside of the US. It's been an incredible year where I feel the team is on fire, focusing on launching YouTube Red, YouTube Music, and as you saw at Sundance a big push on YouTube originals, with a focus from our top creators, to create exclusive content for YouTube Red users.
And so I'm really excited about all the new investments we are doing there and users are responding very positively, and so I think it's going to be an exciting 2016 for YouTube.
And then in the Rest-of-World, it's already growing at a high rate off a large base and we're really pleased with the ongoing progress there. In addition to mobile, we benefited from Play and our universal app campaigns, as Sundar said, we're continuing to invest meaningfully in Rest-of-World. We view it as a very sizable opportunity, bringing the next 4 billion online and all the opportunities there. So that's really the main focus for us at this point is continuing to build out availability, access and products for the Rest-of-World.
Thanks.
Thank you. And our next question comes from Paul Vogel from Barclays. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Great. Thanks. Just two questions. One, just going back to the CPCs real quickly, if we were to sort of normalize out both TrueView and currency, I'm just wondering any comments on how core Search is doing and just how core Mobile Search is doing from a pricing standpoint?
And then, second, just on the CapEx side, I'm just sort of curious how you think about utilization across all of your products, and are we sort of -- you, obviously, spent a lot in the past. Are we kind of at a good spot? Do we need to spend ahead or is there a lot of capacity that isn't being utilized right now? Thank you.
So in terms of CPCs, other than YouTube, I guess the other comments to add are in the fourth quarter, we did see an impact from the ad format changes that we talked about in the third quarter. That also increased our overall click base and we believe this click growth is a positive indicator of ads that are proving to be more relevant to users. In other words, the CPC trend reflects the fact that the denominator is growing faster than the numerator, but we do view that as a long-term upside opportunity for both CPCs and revenue.
So mobile continues to be very healthy. I tried to indicate in my opening comments, and Sundar did as well, and similarly desktop growth remains very healthy. In terms of CapEx, so I guess the main point is we do expect that it will be increasing in 2016. I've already addressed that.
I think part of it's -- you got in the way you asked the question -- which is we've achieved efficiencies after this heavy spend in 2014, and that's where the team was very focused as we ramped up spend. And then we've been focused on what can we -- how to extract the most efficiency here, and that as I said, does explain some of the slower CapEx in 2015 and the reason we've been very focused on indicating that it will be increasing to support all that we're doing.
It's quite a bit of requirements on both the Google side and what we're doing in Other Bets and Fiber, specifically. So, part of it was the 2014 spend and the digestion in 2015.
Great. Thank you very much.
Thanks.
Thank you. And our next question comes from Ross Sandler from Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Great, thanks. I just had two questions for Sundar. Most of them have been answered already. But on the UK, Sundar, it's now growing over 20% despite a tougher comp, and that's the most mature digital advertising economy globally, and we haven't been over 20% at Google for three-plus years.
So is this mostly a function of Mobile Search hitting its stride? Is there anything else that's driving that growth up? And what do you think that says about the maturity, or lack thereof, of digital advertising globally as we look at all other regions? And then you also made the comment during the prepared remarks that ARPU for Play, I believe you're referring to Play, is up 30%.
Is that on a like-for-like geo basis? And is that a function of the personalization efforts that Google's been doing within Play, or is that more a function of just the overall content flowing through Play evolving and maturing? Thank you.
On the first, when I think about growth, you're right, and as Ruth mentioned earlier too, Mobile Search, YouTube, they're all working well. But I would take into account overall a secular shift to mobile, how users are adopting mobile, and on top of that, I think we are working hard to serve our users well on mobile. So it's a combination of all of that and I think the model is working well.
On Play, to be very clear, spend per buyer is up 30% and that's globally. And it's a function of, as you pointed out, I think we have made good strides in terms of personalizing the experience for each user and I think that's borne fruit. But a lot of it is also improving our ability to handle payments for users and developers and to do that better through time at a global scale.
Thank you. Our last question comes from Mark May from Citi. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Thank you. I think they're both for Ruth. I just wanted to make sure I was interpreting your comments correctly earlier. You talked about looking at the trend line on a trailing 12-month basis at the Other Bets losses to get a sense of the trend line.
I think operating losses roughly doubled on a year-on-year basis on a trailing basis. Is that sort of the trajectory that you're wanting us to think about going forward? And then more of a housekeeping question around Other Bets. Can you just describe what you mean by project milestones and maybe provide an example of that?
And then on the Search business, can you talk about what sort of progress that you've seen in the auction in terms of closing the gap between the average mobile CPC and desktop? Thanks.
So the trend, when I talked about looking at an annual or rolling 12-month to assess trends it was really to say that there can be idiosyncrasies on a quarterly basis that are -- so it leads to a lumpiness, just again, given how early stage these are, and any particular event in one or more companies can affect the overall numbers. It was not intended to say take the 2014 over 2015 and extrapolate, far from it.
The budgeting process that we went through was a very rigorous process, as I said in my opening comments. We prioritized some; we made some tough calls. But very much with a view of having a very disciplined envelope around the way we are looking at the opportunities we have across the Other Bets. And so we looked at them, again, opportunity by opportunity.
In terms of the milestones, they can really vary for a number of things, but it would be linked to anything at the Company, which in our view, whether it's technically or from a business perspective, advances the development of the Company, the value of the Company, and we're not going to go into detail on each one of the specific companies.
I think your second question was around Search in terms of the monetization trends in Search. And I think I've already addressed that one, as well. When I first provided color on desktop and mobile the point is really about the health of both of them. And as I've already said here on this call, mobile continues to outperform, desktop growth remains healthy, and with all the comments that both Sundar and I made with respect to mobile it should be clear that mobile Search revenue was up significantly this quarter.
Thank you. I you would now like to turn the call back to Ellen West for any further remarks.
Thank you, everyone, for joining us today, and we look forward to talking to you again on our first quarter 2016 call. Thank you and good afternoon.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.