Our first question comes from the line of Vijay Rakesh from Mizuho.
Yes, hello, guys. Just a couple of questions here on the DRAM side. Obviously, a good bit growth there. But what's the mix of 20-nanometer that is shipping now and how do you see that as you progress through the August quarter? Do you see further cost reductions there? Thanks. I have one follow-up.
20-nanometer is a majority of the bits that we are shipping now and when we talked in our prepared remarks about strong bit growth above Q3 levels, you saw what the relative growth was in Q3 and you can assume that it will be a little bit north of that as we look at fiscal Q4.
Got it. And on the 3D NAND, on the NAND side obviously, looks like bit growth was a little light obviously because of the transition. What's your mix of 3D NAND that you're shipping now and when do you see the transition and the bit growth start to open up for you on the NAND side?
It's a low double digits today. As we commented, as we get into the back half of the calendar year, we expect a crossover. So that's coming pretty soon. So it's a pretty significant ramp from here over the next couple of quarters.
Got it, and obviously, you guys are giving the point estimate to me on the gross margin now which is great. As you look at your mix, the 20-nanometer cost coming down and 3D NAND TLC starting to ship, any thoughts on where you see those margins start to bottom out? Thanks.
You know, we typically don't comment on margins because of the function of our pricing environment that's moving around on us every day. And so really, what we have said is that the cost curves that we articulated in our Analyst Day are still legitimate. As you can imagine, when we do 3D crossover and NAND in the fall, that's when you can expect to see the accelerated cost reductions begin to occur there. And on the DRAM side with the bit growth that we delivered in fiscal Q3, as well as what we're forecasting for fiscal Q4, you can get some idea of what the cost reductions would be there.
Great, thanks a lot.
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of John Pitzer from Credit Suisse.
Good afternoon, guys. Thanks for letting me ask a question. Ernie, maybe a follow on to that margin question, and I appreciate that margins are a function of pricing which is hard to predict. But you've got a lot of elements moving in the right direction. Revenue is growing sequentially into the fiscal fourth quarter. You've got 20-nanometer mix. You've got more mobile. NAND is starting to turn your way. And yet, you've got gross margins that are likely going to be down sequentially.
Can you help me understand just some of the factors around mix that are in play? And the narrative that we were hoping for is that this quarter, the May quarter, and the August quarter, would start to show some tangible evidence of you closing the relative cost gap to some of your peers. And just given the gross margin guidance, it looks like that's not happening and I'm trying to figure out why.
Maybe John, I can take that one instead of Ernie. Again, on the pricing environment as you noted, we're seeing -- there's obviously encouraging things going on in the channel. Before we start baking that into any sort of guidance we would give, we want to actually see that as it moves through other end market segments and out in the contract pricing et cetera. So really this is a question about the tailwinds we have and I think you did a nice job articulating for us.
I think we've done a good job on the 20-nanometer ramp and we'll continue to see some improvement for that as we move through the next quarter. And we articulated pretty strong bit growth moving forward in both DRAM and in particular, maybe a couple of quarters out in NAND as we really see that transition kick in and the 3D TLC part of that transition kick in. So we've got a lot of good tailwinds. We also articulated we're making a lot of good progress on qualifying and resegmenting those more advanced technology nodes in the right market segments.
And we do believe that you'll see progress relative to our competition in terms of how our margins move. We never know exactly what they are going to do and it's tough for us to predict what their results are going to look like given the pricing environment.
That's helpful, Mark. I appreciate it. And then, Ernie, maybe as my follow-on just on the OpEx guidance for the fiscal fourth quarter. A little bit higher than we thought. Can you help us understand, are there some period expenses that are coming in?
And then as you talk about the restructuring and the cost savings, given that you have that cost gap and you have a lot of initiatives on your plate for investing, how do we get comfortable that you're taking costs out of the right areas and yet still investing in areas you need to invest?
Sure. So to the first part of your question, there are some very significant prequal expenses that we expect to incur in Q4 that are influencing the guidance that we provided for the quarter's OpEx. And then relative to the cost reduction, the only comfort perhaps I would offer you, which I hope is very strong comfort, is that we actually think very carefully about what we're doing here.
And the decisions that we made with respect to the cost savings program were deliberated very thoughtfully debated and at the end, we believe we're at the right balance to both help improve the financial performance of the Company, while at the same time, not jeopardizing any of the Company's potential in terms of revenue opportunities.
John, maybe I can add one point there just so everyone on the call is clear. I know you are. The pre-production R&D costs Ernie is referencing are really associated with a lot of new products in qual with the technology nodes that are now ramped. And some of those are costs that flow through the R&D now as opposed to directly on the cost flow and inventory.
Perfect. Thanks, guys. I appreciate it.
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Romit Shah from Nomura Securities.
Yes, thanks. Mark, you mentioned that channel pricing has improved. At what point would you start to see that show up in contract and in some of your other businesses? Because it looks like just based on the guidance for August that you're not expecting the overall pricing environment to (technical difficulties).
Well you know, it's a very dynamic environment. So again, we want to make sure we're giving you what we believe is realistic guidance and guidance that is achievable and we're going to have to see what plays out in the markets overtime. When spot pricing starts moving, that's a great indicator of where the markets might go. But what has to happen obviously, is there has to be enough liquidity in the market that it can carry through into larger volume orders associated with contract market and inventory has to burn off. And we're seeing good indications of those types of things, but we need to make sure the pudding is fully baked before we serve it.
Okay, that's helpful. And then just on the prequal expenses that are boosting OpEx this quarter, is that more one-time in nature or do you expect expenses to remain elevated through the course of the year as you ramp these new products?
Well certainly, they will occur as there is a concentration of new products. So you shouldn't expect that they are going to occur each quarter. I would tell you that in Q4, they are particularly high relative to what we've seen over the recent history as a reflection of what Mark said.
But it is likely that sometime during the course of 2017, you're also going to see these occur as we release new products. But again, we see a particularly high concentration in FY16 Q4.
Okay, thank you.
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Tim Arcuri from Cowen and Co.
Thanks a lot. I guess I had two questions. First of all, the NAND bits are really moving around a lot, obviously given the planar to the 3D move. So maybe you can hold our hand a little bit, A, on the 3D transition, because it does look like there's been some issues in the 3D transition looking at the bits. And maybe also talk about what the bit outlook is for August in NAND to just give us some comfort that you're getting through this transition.
So Tim, relative to -- I'll take the second part of your question first and then we'll circle back around to the first. The stake in the ground is that we've said a few things, which were actually we reiterated today that would be in the opposite direction of thinking there were problems with our 3D NAND transition. We're seeing mature yields occurring at rates that are slightly faster than we anticipated. We had originally probably six months ago, talked about bit crossover for 3D at the end of the year.
Today, we've reiterated again that that was going to occur in the fall. So a pull forward of a couple of months. And so, we're not going to give you bit guidance for the August quarter, but we do think that these data points will hopefully give you comfort that in fact the transition really is occurring slightly more rapidly than we have expected it to occur.
The thing I would add to that Tim is keep in mind we've also talked about the fact that we want to deliver more of our NAND bits in actual solutions to the customer. And as we do that, there's a natural tendency to stretch out the supply chain in aggregate and some lengthening of the total manufacturing cycle time as we move through that transition. Part of this I think is also reflective of the fact that we're making some fairly significant progress relative to getting these bits into the types of end products that we want to deliver the customer.
I think one final point that may be also contributing to the overall impression is we do see planar bits coming down fairly significantly as we move away from the planar SSD markets that we have sold into in the past. So there are many dynamics at play here relative to what comes out as an aggregate bit number.
Got it. And then just as the follow-up to that. Ernie, you talked at the Analyst Day, I think you said that $800 million of the CapEx this year would be for fab shell spending. So that net of the partner contribution you'd be in the $4 billion to $4.5 billion range. So sorry -- net of the partner contribution and also net of the fab shell spend, you'd be in the $4 billion to $4.5 billion range.
So I'm just wondering as you look to next year and I'm not asking for guidance, but I'm just wondering how you think about the maintenance CapEx level of the Company given some of these initiatives you have in DRAM and also in 3D NAND? How do you think about how to balance that? Thanks.
Well, you really asked two different questions right? How do we balance and obviously the balance has to come in as we think about the aggregate business of the Company and the cash flow that we plan to generate and a number of other factors.
As we look at maintenance CapEx, we said that we were normalized in that low $4 billion range ex-Inotera, and we wouldn't move away from that in a very substantial way as we're thinking about things today. Bearing in mind that we're still in the midst of a ramp of 3D in the Singapore fab, so it isn't exactly a normalized environment for us. Even taking out the shell, we're still outfitting that shell with productive capacity.
Got it. Okay. Thank you so much.
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of David Wong from Wells Fargo.
Thank you very much. For the second generation 3D NAND, when you hit crossover in the fall for 3D NAND, will this all be on second generation technology or will it be first generation? And what's the difference in layer count between first and second generation, please?
So David, it will be primarily -- a significant majority of that, in fact almost all of it, will still be gen one. Gen two, we start to see significant output in the second calendar quarter into the summer of 2017. And we haven't said what the layer count does, but we've indicated that it's roughly a 30% cost reduction moving from gen one to gen two and that it's roughly double the bits.
Great, thanks.
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Chris Hemmelgarn from Barclays.
Thanks very much for taking the question. I guess first of all, building on David's question. As you're seeing 3D ramp across the industry, how do you view your competitive positioning? At your Analyst Day, you laid out some beliefs that you were going to have cost leadership. Is that holding as you're seeing the competition ramp?
This is Mark. Yes, absolutely. We are very happy with the way the ramp is going. We're very happy with the technology was delivering and its ability to scale going forward. We think it's the best solution in the industry for almost every end market application.
Okay, and I guess to the harder question. What needs to happen for you guys to get back to sustained profitability? I applaud the restructuring efforts, but I look at the savings you've announced and that falls short of the losses you put up the last two quarters and what you guided to the next quarter. Are you confident these changes are going to be enough to get you back to profitability next year?
Well, we think we're doing all the right things and we think we're making a lot of good progress on our relative competitive position on technology, the products are all coming along nicely now and the qualifications are progressing well. So there's always the wild card around ASPs, but we think we are making very significant progress and we think we'll see that every quarter as we move forward, you'll be able to measure us versus our competition. And hopefully confirm that we're doing all the right things. Exactly when that results in profitability, we can't tell you, but we think it's coming.
Thanks, much.
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Kevin Cassidy from Stifel.
Thanks for taking my question. On the mobile side, as you start getting more qualification on the LP DDR3 and DDR4, are you expecting that -- I guess what percentage of your revenue will be those products versus EMCP and what is it today?
Let me see if I can find those numbers. I don't have them right in front of me. For the mobile DRAM portfolio generally, EMCP probably represents --
Well, I'll jump in real quick Mark. So the way we break it out Kevin, is mobile DRAM discrete is reported in our DRAM business and that's about mid-20% of our total DRAM. Our EMCPs are reported in our NAND reporting segment and we said mobile was in the mid-teens percent of the NAND business, low to mid-teens.
Okay, maybe as you ship more of the LP DDR3 and 4s, are you expecting that your average selling price would increase?
Again, it's really challenging to give you a forecast of what's going to happen with the pricing environment. But in terms of aggregate revenues, we would expect it as we move through these qualifications that you're going to see the mobile business maintain or slightly improve in terms of a percentage of its overall revenue to the business.
And as we noted in our comments, as we see EMCP market moving to higher density, we think that will be a starting point for an improvement in that aggregate market, which has been weak actually in the last couple of quarters. And that's a quarter or so off as we roll into calendar 2017.
Okay, great. Thank you.
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of CJ Muse from Evercore ISI.
Good afternoon. Thank you for taking my question. First question on the mobility qualification side. How much is the uncertainty around timing there, whether it's the month of August or September/October, impacting your gross margin guide? And then as part of that, how should we think about the incremental gross margins as you start selling down your inventory going forward once we do get the qualified?
So CJ, this is Ernie. We're pretty clear on the qualification timeline. There is more uncertainty around the timing of shipments because at the end of the day, that is going to be a function of each of those customers current inventory dynamics with respect to the inventories they have on hand, their success in the marketplace and how they want to position their inventory.
And in addition to that, we are going to have as we already talked about, significant quarter on quarter growth in production. Some of which is directed toward that mobile market because we believe that it's fairly strong.
So mobile in general, has a better gross margin profile than the aggregate business. So as that product flows through, although there will be some early pressure as a result of that inventory having been built at a time when costs weren't fully baked as the result of the volume ramp, eventually it will flow through into the margin profile of the Company.
Okay, that's helpful. And I guess as a follow-up, when you think about your 3D NAND cost structure, curious how you would compare that today versus the price leader in planar NAND and when you think you'll crossover? Is that gen one when you're fully ramped at high volume or is that more gen two in the summertime next year?
Yes, I think that it's probably most closely timed to an increase in our TLC mix, which is probably a couple of quarters out. And then we'll get a second surge in calendar Q2 and Q3 of next year as the gen two kicks in a significant way. But again, we think we'll be -- we think we'll be the leader as we fully implement gen two and TLC.
Great. Thanks, Mark.
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Joe Moore from Morgan Stanley.
Hello, thank you. I just wanted to clarify when you talk about Q4 DRAM bit growth being better than Q3, that's sequential bit growth north of 20%. And I guess that then implies when you look at revenue not growing very much that ASPs are down similarly. I know you don't want to give a pricing forecast, but I just want to make sure I understand. I'm finding it hard to get to your revenue number with my pricing assumptions.
So the first part of your assumption process Joe, is correct. And again, we're not going to comment on ASPs.
Okay, and then separately, can you talk about how the Inotera, the new pricing agreement factors into this? Is that a positive or a negative at this point relative to the old pricing agreement? And maybe if you could compare that versus a wholly-owned situation if that deal in fact moves through? Just any context you can give us around that dynamic?
Sure, so in the current pricing environment, what we've contemplated as we look forward to Q4, it's pretty much a wash to be honest with you. Either way, the results to Micron would be roughly the same.
Got it. Okay, thank you.
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Harlan Sur from JPMorgan.
Hello, guys. Thanks for taking my question. I'm still a little bit unclear as to the gross margin decline or the slight gross margin decline in the August quarter, given that we've seen some stabilization in DRAM and NAND prices starting in the month of June. Your 20-nanometer mix and your 3D NAND mix is moving higher, so would assume that your blended costs are coming down nicely.
You mentioned other parts of the market that may not be participating on the pricing stabilization that we're seeing in the PC market, but if I look at the end market demand parameters, data center, networking fundamentals seem to be improving into the second half. Embedded fundamentals seem to be seasonally up. Can you guys just articulate what segments are still showing aggressive pricing declines?
Yes, so let me try to characterize that a little bit for you. So it is important to recognize that these data points are really happening in realtime and as we look at how we actually entered this quarter, we were actually starting the quarter below the average of the prior quarter and we're now seeing some upward trends that are causing everyone to have the enthusiasm that we're talking about. But it is important to understand that what we've been reading about in the last two weeks has A, not impacted the entirety of the quarter and B, hasn't reflected itself yet as we look at forward pricing. And as Mark mentioned a couple times, we really are wanting to provide prudent guidance in the context of an environment moving around very significantly.
The other point I would make is it is absolutely true that we are seeing strong bit growth and cost reductions on the DRAM side. Remember that we said the majority of the NAND cost reductions occur as we achieve that bit crossover, which is later in the fall of this year. So we are getting quarter on quarter cost reductions in NAND, but I think you might be perhaps pulling towards that bit crossover comment into the full quarter that we're coming up on and that's just not going to be the case.
Okay, appreciate the insights there. Maybe more of a product question for me next. If we include two in ones, SSD and embedded NAND attach rates and notebook PCs are at or slightly above 50% now and continuing to climb. I think you guys had a target of having your 3D NAND base client SSD in the market in calendar Q3. Maybe if you can give us an update there?
And I think you guys also had a target to have your 3D NAND-based SATA solution, your high capacity drives for hyper scale guys, starting in calendar Q4. If you could give us an update there as well? Thanks.
Well, they are both in the market and we're just going to have to see what the demand looks like. But so far, we like the reaction we're seeing.
Great, thank you.
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Rajvindra Gill from Needham & Company.
Yes, thanks for taking my question. On the whole 3D NAND conversion, I just wanted to get a better understanding of in your estimation, what would be more cost effective, the 3D on 32 layer versus the 20-nanometer that's currently on 2D NAND?
Definitely the 3D 32 layers is cost advantaged relative to 20-nanometer. Even 16-nanometer planar NAND. And we believe that as we move through time, the market is going to appreciate incremental value in 3D NAND business as well.
But can you give us an idea in terms of if your 3D NAND is actually fitted for some of the applications will be available for applications such as mobile or embedded or car?
We have a full product portfolio coming for 3D NAND that will address. And I think I mentioned this in my commentary, we have 3D NAND products for consumer, client, data center and enterprise as well as evaluating mobile applications on a go-forward basis.
Okay and just last question on the mobile DRAM qualification issues. What specifically can you talk about? Has there been quality issues with respect to your mobile DRAM, which is preventing you from getting qualified at certain customers and as a result losing market share to Samsung and --?
You know, I think we've gone through a very significant transition here. In some cases from 30-nanometer to 20-nanometer. In some cases from 25-nanometer to 20-nanometer. And from a timing perspective, in some cases we were later with a particular either density or IO or interface that the customers wanting.
So it's just a matter of working through that process and qualifying those products in the various fabs that we're ramping. So I don't think there's anything untoward or unusual in that process. It's just a matter of a fairly significant ramp across two high volume fabs and taking the time to qualify a full suite of products across all those technologies.
And if I can squeeze one more. In terms of competitively as it relates to your other major competitor moving to a smaller process node, and you guys perhaps perpetually playing catch up in terms of the profit node transition. What are some of the lessons you think you guys have understood from the 20-nanometer transition and trying to rectify that when you go to the other process node transition? Just in general, any comments there would be helpful. Thank you very much.
So certainly, we think 3D NAND has gone very well for that. For us, that has been really a model where we take technology we've developed in fab four and move it into a consistent equipment set and a historically Micron environment where the equipment all matches and things go very well.
What we experienced in 20-nanometer, is we're matching a disparate set of equipment given the Elpida acquisition. So we have got one tool set in Hiroshima, on tool set in the MMT fab in Taichung, and a separate tool set in the Inotera fab. And that's just more complicated.
And every time we make this transition, we get more and more of those tools aligned and we feel like actually we're in pretty good shape now. And as we move to the 1x node beyond that, it's going to be a lot more seamless and a lot easier to execute on a go-forward basis. So we think we're the leader in 3D and we think we're getting closer in DRAM and 1x is coming along now running at a preproduction levels in both Hiroshima and Taichung.
Thank you very much.
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Mehdi Hosseini from SIG.
Yes, thanks for taking my question. Mark, just looking at your NAND gross margin. It's been below corporate average since mid-2013, and you have all of these new product qualifications coming up.
I'm just wondering is there strategic alternative here to make a more dramatic or to take a more dramatic action? Because there's been more than two years that NAND has been underperforming compared to the corporate average. And in case these product qualifications don't go well, is there an alternative strategy here? And I have a follow-up.
We're always open to looking at lots of different ways to optimize the business for the shareholders. Having said that, we like our NAND position. We like the technology, the early feedback from the customers is they like what we're doing. They like not only the 3D technology, but the product portfolio. And we think we're making progress. So we are encouraged with the progress we've been making.
Yes, we have admitted for 18 months now that we completely missed the boat on planar TLC. We think we've taken significant steps to remedy that on a go-forward basis and we intend to do so. So we're going to play it out and as we do that, we'll look at lots of different strategic options for the DRAM business just like we do for the NAND business. Just like we do for the DRAM business and 3D cost point and all of the other interesting new technologies we're developing.
Any way you could share with us qualitatively or big picture what those options are?
Well I think we'll just keep those to ourselves, Mehdi. But I think the main point I would want to make is we think it's important to have a diversified set of products or technologies to support memory system solutions for our customers. We think we're in a strong position there.
We like the growth profile associated with non-volatile memory business generally and that includes not only NAND, not only the 3D XPoint business that we're currently developing, but also other advanced storage class memories we're working in. And we'll look at lots of different ways of optimizing the value in all those different technologies. And we may find different solutions and different segments, but we're always looking for those opportunities to create value-added partnerships or new relationships.
Got it and then quickly for Ernie, how should we think about working capital inventory and accounts receivable? It seems like, at least on an inventory side, it may not come down significantly until February quarter. Is that a fair assumption or not?
I think that it's reasonable to think about inventories being within a pretty narrow band for a couple of quarters. I think that's a reasonable thing to think about. And obviously, we pay a lot of attention to working capital and intend to do so on a going forward basis. And my statement about inventories was on a dollar basis, so obviously bits are going to move around as costs move around.
Okay, thank you.
Operator, I think we have time for one more question.
Certainly, our final question for today comes from the line of Tristan Gerra from Baird.
Hello, good afternoon. You've mentioned on the call today that the 3D NAND cost structure is laying to the TLC mix and you've mentioned a two quarter out timeframe for that mix ramp. Is that even on with the fiscal Q4 target in terms of cost improvement in your NAND difference that you provided last quarter? Or is there a little bit of a change in terms of where you expect an inflection point in your cost structure and NAND flash?
No, there's no change. I think that we're pretty consistent. The fiscal Q1 is our crossover, is aligned with our crossover in the fall that we talked about today, which is a little earlier than we had originally talked about. The 3D crossover comes a little bit later and that drives a surge in the cost improvement but not necessary to drive the improvements that we've outlined relative to our guidance.
Okay, and then just as a quick follow-up, any steps that you can talk about that you're taking to accelerate the node migration at Elpida?
The migration of DRAM from 20-nanometer to 1x?
That's right, yes.
We're not completely done with 20-nanometer there yet, but as I mentioned a minute ago, we have 1x running there. It's where we've been doing our pilot line activity and we've transitioned or we've transferred then that technology into the Taichung fab and they are progressing with that. We wouldn't expect to see volume starts in either LPO or Taichung until later this year.
Great, thank you.
Thank you and our next question comes from the line of -- I'm sorry, that does conclude our conference for today. And we thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.
Thank you, everyone.