Carlos Kirjner, Bernstein.
Thank you. I have two questions. First, is about Search revenues. Search is probably a $50-billion business, and from today's results, it's clearly still growing strongly. Of course, if the business gets larger, it becomes harder and harder to sustain growth. As you look at this increasing growth challenge on your product innovations in Search, including recent changes and also those that you have in your road map for the next few years, how do you think about your ability to sustain such revenue growth and the trajectory for which they will ultimately accelerate?
The second questions is on Google Fiber. I think Ruth has been quite clear that we should expect an increasing Other Bets CapEx, and that Fiber is the main driver, suggesting more investment. Yet when we see the rate at which you have deployed in markets like Austin or some of the newer markets, they are quite slow.
You also have started to talk about wireless technologies, suggesting that you haven't fully figured this out yet, which in turn suggests that it's going to be slow to [climb]. So the question is, which one is it? Is it faster, more aggressive deployment given the CapEx commentary or is it going to be continued slow, multi-year deployment as your track record and the talk of new technologies suggest? Thank you.
Thank you, Carlos, a lot in those questions. Starting with sites revenue and where we see the opportunities there, obviously, sites revenue up 24% year on year includes the currency impact. And as Sundar and I both commented on, the biggest driver again this quarter was mobile search. We do continue to have solid growth in desktop, tablet, we have strength in YouTube, particularly video advertising, both in our TrueView products and increasingly from Google Preferred.
As we've talked about every quarter since the third quarter of last year, we have benefited to the change to ad formats on mobile that we made in the third quarter of last year, and that is evident yet again this quarter.
And then as per your question, when we go back -- going back to that third quarter of 2015 when we made the change in ad formats on mobile, our growth rate meaningfully accelerated. And as we've noted in each subsequent quarter, that change has been the primary driver of the higher year-on-year revenue growth rate.
But importantly, as you've seen over the last several quarters, we're benefiting not just from the higher growth rate but also from the durability of the impact of the change. So that's really underscoring the efficacy of these ads for users, as per Sundar's comments, and it's reflected in revenues running at a higher level. And you can see where the revenue growth rate was prior to the third quarter introduction; I'll let you do your own forecasting. But when comparing growth rates, we're obviously at a higher revenue base versus last year.
And then Sundar talked about some of the recent events that we've had. Innovation is core to everything we're doing. We've launched several changes to ad formats and tools just a few days ago. As the team discussed at the Google Performance Summit, we believe the changes should result in a better, more useful experience for users and better performance for advertisers. And so that just continues to be core to the way we're looking at the business with a lot of incremental opportunity.
And then on your Fiber -- the Fiber and the CapEx question, look, we continue to see Fiber as a huge market opportunity. We're focused on creating abundant connectivity, networks that are always fast and always open, as we've talked about. And we're continuing to work closely with cities given their excitement. We're also looking to push the frontier with tech innovation, as you noted in your question, and different execution paths.
So, as you said in the question, we're exploring both Fiber and wireless and you may have seen our recent acquisition of WebPass. So we want to make sure we're executing against a very large and attractive market in the most effective and efficient manner. We did start adding customers in Charlotte in July, and so again, we view it as a big opportunity. We're being thoughtful and deliberate in our execution path.
Thank you. Next question from Eric Sheridan, UBS.
Thank you for taking the questions. Maybe following up on Carlos's question on Search, and Ruth your answer. I wanted to go a little deeper on the retail and the travel verticals; it's two areas where we see a lot of innovation from the Company right now, both on the product side that consumers are seeing, as well as on the advertising side. How should we think about the road map ahead for both increased user engagement with your product in those key verticals, as well as ability for advertiser conversion to lead to more advertising budgets for the Company over the medium to long term?
And then maybe one second question would be, with the buy-back authorization having been completed this quarter, Ruth, would love to get your thoughts how you're thinking about the balance sheet as an asset and how shareholders should think about ability for shareholder returns over the medium and long term. Thank you so much.
So why don't I start on your second question, then I'll pass it to Sundar on the first question. As you know, we announced the share repurchase program relatively recently, it was just in the third quarter of last year, and we just completed it, as per my opening comments. As we discussed back in the third quarter, we do always review our balance sheet and capital requirements and opportunities with our Board. And I'm not going to speculate about a potential for a future Board decision, so really nothing more to add at this point. And then, Sundar?
Look, we obviously think generally across all types of verticals, and you highlighted a couple of important verticals. To give an example on travel, many users start their travel inquiry on Google. And so we focus on doing a better job on getting them deeper information, new destinations and compare costs through new features in hotel search, Google flights, and the recently launched Destinations on Google.
In all of this we work closely with many different partners, including online travel agencies, and so we focus on product enhancements in partnership with them. The better job we do at answering user queries, the more qualified leads we can provide to our partners, and we think it's a win-win arrangement. And so, and the same concept applies to these other verticals as well, so we approach it very holistically.
Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.
Thank you very much. Sundar, I was wondering, I know you gave us some color on the cloud business just a few moments ago in your prepared remarks. But I was wondering if you could share with us some of the changes, if you could highlight some of them that Diane had made since she's come on board. And I'm wondering how some of those changes might be starting to impact conversations with potential customers that you're having. And, in particular, just trying to get a sense of are you seeing Google now with GCP getting invited to more RFPs and starting to see your win rates go up as a result of some of her initiatives? Thank you.
Thanks, Heather. Absolutely, I think that Diane has initiated a set of changes, and essentially, she has integrated our go-to-market strategy with her engineering and product efforts. She has integrated our engineering efforts on the cloud. So for example, Google Apps, Drive, Docs, Gmail, Slides Sheets, Hangouts, et cetera, is on top of the cloud stack.
Our enterprise customers and partners, for them, now they have one enterprise [phase], and internally, from frictionless contracts to touch points across Google, to one person to work with them on our considerable enterprise technologies and products. So the big unifying one being cloud.
We now have new leadership in place across sales, professional services, marketing, and partnering, plus new customer-facing support in the form of professional services. We have an office of the CTO and customer reliability.
So it's a big set of changes, and it's obviously having an impact. Many of our customers are also partners, and so it's increasingly clear how much we can do together. So for me I see a shift to a world-class enterprise approach, and it's definitely having an impact on the type of conversations we are having and the outcome of the RFPs we are engaged in.
Thank you very much.
Ross Sandler, Deutsche Bank.
Sundar, I just had a question about machine learning. You spent a lot of time talking about how this is positively impacting Google as a whole and how you're building for the future, both tonight and at IO a few months ago. And you guys have mentioned things like reducing the error rates in search, and improving relevancy. But are there tangible examples of either engagement or volume also increasing as you roll out machine learning in search and in YouTube that you could share?
And then I think Google recently introduced Smart Bidding in AdWords using machine learning. So do you see something like this as a potential revenue driver? Any color there would be great. Thank you.
Yes, so we definitely -- a core part of improving the user experience for the next many years will be driven by machine learning. To give a specific example you asked about YouTube. YouTube watch time is something that we focus on. We use machine learning increasingly to give recommendations to users when they're watching a video in terms of what they could watch next. And that recommendation system is getting -- increasingly using machine learning, and that directly drives engagement. So there are several such examples I can give across the Company.
You mention AdWords, too. If you look at AdWords and thoughtful changes we do, over time, we are dealing with big [commentary] of space in terms of the kinds of changes and interactions that can happen. So deploying machine learning there over time, over many years I think is a more powerful and deeper way to explore the various possibilities that exist and I think will lead to long-term impacts. And so very optimistic on it.
Douglas Anmuth, JPMorgan.
Thank for taking the questions. I wanted to ask, too, first, Sundar, you talked about expanded text ads. And my question is just as the number of characters here increases, some would say up to 50% through expanded text ads, you're taking up more space on the page. How do you balance the higher percentage of clicks from these paid ads with the natural search experience?
Secondly, on YouTube, do you think you're taking share of TV dollars currently? And if not, what's needed to do that going forward? Thanks.
On the first one, we obviously, over many, many years we always put users first, and as we present our search results, we have long-term metrics for user happiness around which we make -- that's the framework for all of the changes we make. Obviously with the shift to mobile, the user experience -- users are evolving in terms of how they use our product. And with that as a guidance, we have made changes.
We make many, many changes,, and I would look at it holistically. And even some of the changes you're talking about affect certain highly commercial queries where users are actually looking for that commercial information. So the metrics is what drives how we change these things, and I'm being very, very thoughtful about it. But we always step back and make sure that overall load, et cetera, is really working for users. So I'm pretty comfortable with how we are approaching it.
On YouTube, I think about it as we are seeing strong growth. I mentioned the momentum behind Google Preferred and how we are double the rate we were last year. So to me, that implies strong growth. It's tough for us to assess from TV or just advertisers in listing more because [of this traction] in YouTube. But we just see strong momentum. And as far as today, just look at how users are using mobile, videos, the killer format on mobile, and I think that is what gives us the secular trend moving forward.
Thank you.
Thank you. And our next question comes from Mark Mahaney, RBC Capital Markets.
I just want to ask one question. It has to do with mobile search and I want to throw an idea by you, which is we've been going through this mobile transition for four or five years. Consumers have, I think, dramatically led businesses and advertisers to mobile devices.
I'm wondering if what you're now seeing is finally, as e-commerce and travel and other commerce activities have really become critical material on mobile devices, you're finally starting to see ad budgets really shift over and you're starting to get option dynamics start pick up in mobile search. Could you just comment on whether you're finally seeing this back swing for advertisers to engage with mobile search in a way that you really hadn't seen before; it just took that many years for this to happen? Thanks.
I would, Mark, thanks for the question. I would say at a higher level, this is a scale business, and, you're right. As we have had this shift to mobile that our second [order effects, which] kick in too, which is why when you look at our ad improvements and our revenue improvements I would focus more holistically. We do deeper changes across the board, not just visible changes on the page, and all of that contributes to it. So I do definitely think it has to shift to mobile [accelerates], we are getting some scale benefits and that is part of it.
Dan Salmon, BMO.
Good afternoon, everyone. Sundar, I was wondering if you could spend a little time talking about the launch of the My Activity site, which I think is an update to the controls that your users have over the use of their data. And, in particular, I would be interested to hear about the option to opt into greater personalization of ads from across usership on Google sites. As I believe that's the first time you've allowed on an opt-in basis certainly, to have search data be used to target ads elsewhere.
And then maybe as a follow-up to that what you're seeing in terms of early traction of users turning that on and where your expectations for that may be.
Look, we're very focused on giving users better controls, and so we wanted to give users a single place to see and control ad setting. And that will be [honored] as the user moves across devices. It's completely opt-in; users are absolutely in control. And consumers and advertisers have come to expect the ads to work better across devices, and this new option could help us better deliver on that.
For people who choose to opt in over time, we could make sure they see more relevant ads and fewer annoying ones, so effectively put them in better control of the experience they get. And so I think that helps the whole ecosystem work better. We are in very, very early days and -- but we're thoughtful about how we do this for users.
Thank you.
Colin Sebastian, Robert Baird.
Great, thanks. Two quick questions. First off, we understand that Google Shopping in particular continues to see strong growth, and I was hoping you could add color on relative mix or growth rates of PLA contrasting with other ad types, along with the adoption of the transactional capabilities.
And then, Sundar, I wanted to follow up on some of the conversational and voice applications and devices that you have in the pipeline. And more generally, how you envision voice really fitting in across the board, across the Google platform. Will this be a centerpiece as you also utilize machine learning, artificial intelligence? I'd like to hear more about your vision for that. Thank you.
Let me, quickly on the first one, we don't comment on the relative mix, et cetera, so I'll probably give more color on your second question. Voice is obviously very, very exciting for us. I mentioned this at IO, if you look at the Android, the Google app on Android in the US, 20% of the queries are voice queries.
Today, in terms of evolving to a conversational assistant, we have a big head start, people do this. We get millions of queries every single day, and it's incredibly exciting to see how people interact with voice differently from text. It's more intuitive, it's more personal, and it's a bit more emotional and engaging experience for users.
And so, I think to do this well requires deep computer science, understanding what they are saying, the natural language processing involved. These are areas in which we have now been working for over 15 years, and we believe we are the best in class. Bringing all of that together I think is what will help us do this at scale globally.
But it's still very early days in terms of getting the conversational assistant right. You will see us launch this throughout products as we go through the second half of this year, and I am excited to see how users respond to it.
Thank you.
Anthony DiClemente, Nomura.
Thanks for taking my questions. I have one for Sundar and one for Ruth. Sundar, in terms of messaging, you mentioned Allo, your mobile messaging product, and Duo, which is a -- your video messaging product. Why is it important that Google is competitive in mobile messaging, and what gives you the confidence that you could take market share from the other players in the messaging space?
And then, Ruth, in terms of the driver of YouTube growth, you mentioned in your prepared remarks that one of the drivers was buying on DoubleClick Bid Manager. I just want to maybe hear a little bit more about that. Why has that been so successful recently and do you look at that as an incremental, forward driver of YouTube growth? Thank you.
On your first question, I think messaging is obviously an important area. We approach these areas, if you believe we have insights by which we can create something very differentiated for users, that they're actually approaching it in a new and unique way. The core underlying insight we have is in the context of mobile and using a state-of-the-art machine learning, can we rethink some of these areas for our users?
That's the underlying framework with which we've approached this space. I've been really enjoying using these products, and we'll get it out to users soon. For example, I think if you take something like Duo today, I think especially on Android, high quality messaging is an experience that's still lacking for users. So we clearly see an opportunity there. And it's at the core of our mission, bringing informational experiences to users. And so that's why we are investing and we are optimistic about the space.
And I think the -- and the other part of your question, I think the key point is we've been talking about programmatic for quite some time. We're just seeing strong momentum across the board and continue to benefit from that.
Thank you.
Ben Schachter, Macquarie.
Sundar, can you broadly discuss the Google hardware strategy and perhaps some of the lessons learned from previous Google hardware launches? And then relatedly, can you discuss a little bit about how you're thinking about auto strategy? Do you build your own vehicles, license technology? How do you determine which direction to take there and how long until we might see any auto-related revenue? Thanks.
On our overall hardware strategy, we've always -- we've done devices like Nexus or Google Pixel, et cetera. We realize a lot of computing innovations happen at the intersection of hardware and software, and as we are building ecosystems and broad platforms we need a way to drive them forward. That is the context in which we do.
There are areas where we have done it seriously, like Chromecast is a great example. We now have over 30 million Chromecast devices sold. That's an example of [varying this deeply]. Especially as newer areas emerge like Google Home, we want our ability to put the best experience possible in front of our users and guide the ecosystem. So that's how we think about it.
We're being much more thoughtful in how we approach it, and we're building a world-class team so we can do this for our users. But we are very thoughtful about how to approach it and we make sure to work with the ecosystem to accomplish what we're trying to do.
And then on cars, self-driving cars is in Other Bets area, and so just a brief update there. We're now testing in four cities: Mountain View, Austin, most recently we expanded to Kirkland, Washington and to Phoenix. We've self-driven over 1.6 million miles. And the focus here for us is we're solving a really big need, safety, access and city efficiency.
The thing that's really motivating for us is when you look at over 30,000 car deaths in the US alone, that's what really inspired the founders to start working on this issue. And our approach is quite different from most others; we're focused on fully autonomous cars, because in early testing, we saw the risk of depending on drivers to remain engaged once you give them the option to switch off. So we've invested a lot there.
We're testing extensively based on this approach, and more specifically to your question, we're pleased to be working with FCA to advance the development of the self-driving cars. With them, we're more than doubling the number of cars that we have. But we do have huge respect for the expertise required so we do expect we'll work with many partners in this area.
Justin Post, Merrill Lynch.
Thank you, a couple of questions. First on YouTube, just thinking about premium content, a lot of activity with streaming deals out there. Obviously, YouTube would be a natural place for streaming content, but even professionally developed content. Do you think you're letting an opportunity get by? How do you think about that?
And then Ruth, I know you have a lot of experience dealing with regulatory agencies in your last CFO role. There's been some new filings. Can you talk at all about how Google is thinking about that right now? Thank you.
I'll start on the second question. Look, we continue to work constructively with regulators. We don't have an update on timing on any of the specific issues. But the main points in our view are the regulators have found that our businesses do help consumers. And the key mantra here is if we do the right thing for the user, all else will follow.
With respect to consumers, we continue to invest in innovative opportunities that create great experiences and improve their lives. And we're empowering small businesses globally by providing greater reach to customers, not just in their towns but across countries and around the world. And in our discussions, one of the very important points is we operate in a very vibrant competitive environment, and we're also proud of the fact that we're investing meaningfully in the ecosystem. For example, Android has helped foster remarkable and sustainable ecosystem of manufacturers and app developers and entrepreneurs, based on open-source software and open innovation. That's really the thrust of it is -- and the emphasis as we're continuing to work constructively with regulators, no additional update.
And Justin, on the live streaming question, I already mentioned that Live stream is a big focus for us. We've been at it for a while, and we built a great robust and mature platform for big events. We just announced Vitcon, our plans to make mobile live streaming features available within our core YouTube app on all mobile devices.
Our stream time is -- live stream time has increased 3X since the beginning of the year alone. And YouTube is the first major platform to support live content in 360 degrees. And recent examples, even the RNC and the DNC conventions, they're being live streamed on YouTube in 360, and so there's a lot of momentum there and we are absolutely committed to the space.
Brian Nowak, Morgan Stanley.
Thank for taking my questions. I have two. The first one is on the US accelerated pretty nicely. Any specific buckets of advertisers or any of the innovative products that you'd call out as driving that acceleration in the quarter?
The second one, Sundar, you talked about using machine learning for better suggestions on YouTube. Could you just help us all think about what the level of engagement is on YouTube right now, whether it's minutes or maybe growth in minutes? How do we think about engagement in YouTube now?
In terms of the US, the 25% year-on-year growth reflects strength across products; there's really nothing to call out. It's a modest acceleration consistent with what we saw overall. But it's really about mobile search.
On YouTube, I would, at a high level I would say we're not -- don't have any new metrics. But on mobile alone as I've said before, we reach more 18 to 34 and 18 to 49s than any other TV network, broadcast or cable. And every indication we see is that the growth is very, very strong, being driven by mobile and it's growing globally, as well. So overall, I think engagement is very, very healthy. I'm pretty excited about it.
Great. Thanks.
Thank you. This concludes our question-and-answer session for today. I'd like to turn the call back over to Ellen West for closing remarks.
Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again on our third-quarter 2016 call.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect. Have a great day, everyone.