So the first one was just on the second quarter. So I'm just wondering, what level of visibility do you have? What could be the magnitude of the snapback? And the reason I'm asking is, I think if I just take your bookings in the fourth quarter, and if I add maybe EUR0.5 billion service sales, then it looks like we should be well above EUR1.6 billion. So I'm just wondering if that's the right ballpark. And then I have a follow-up. Thank you.
Well, we don't want to leave you down any particular number, but we chose the word significantly wisely, so we wouldn't do that if it would be just a little bit up. So we'll leave it at that today, but it's all underpinned by a strong ramp in 10 nanometer. And we also said that memory will be, throughout the first half, at Q4 levels, so I think you can approximate it from there pretty well.
Okay. And then just a quick one on the gross margin. So, I think the Q1 guidance is probably below where most people think it would be, even if we look back at quarters with similar revenue -- run rates. So I'm just wondering, broadly, what are the reasons? And should we expect that if we do see the recovery in demand and revenues in the second quarter, that we should settle back at the 47%, 48% level that I think we've become used to it, as obviously before EUV? Thank you.
Yes, Kai, I can address it, as well. First of all, there are no structural changes in the sense that you should be worried that pricing came down, or we have any cost issues. This is purely a function of lower volume at one, and then more so a change in mix between products and customers. And then also within the service and field options, that the service is a bit higher when compared to the field options, which come at higher margin. And then you can also read that when we say foundry is lower and memory is higher, foundry tools are usually in a richer configuration going to the customer.
Now, if you want to look at Q2, we won't give you an exact number. But when you consider that the volume will go up and the foundry shipments will go up, and it's 10 nanometer, it will be pretty nicely configured tools, you'll know in which direction the margin will go.
Okay, great. Thank you.
Sandeep Deshpande.
Sandeep Deshpande from JP Morgan. My question would be, Peter, on the memory market. You've said that you are going to have a flattish trend in the first half in the memory market. Do you see this, into the second half, substantially correcting? Or you don't have visibility at this point into this segment?
Secondly, I have a quick question on EUV as well. Clearly, EUV is progressing much better at this point in terms of throughput, and you've given some of the statistics. What time frame do you see EUV actually being built for production volumes? Thanks.
Okay. On the memory market, like I said in the introductory comments, we have very clear visibility given by our customers, also evidenced by our bookings that we received in the fourth quarter. On what we are going to ship in the first half, we're just focused on also the introduction of the new DRAM nodes. So you could say it's clearly a technology transition that is driving the shipments in the first half.
We don't have that visibility yet on the second half, is our current thinking. I can only give you some indication of what was said by some of the market research analyst firms. They expect -- and if they are right, and 25% bit growth for next year would mean about flat wafer capacity year-on-year, 2016 versus 2015. So that means that if the initial shipments of the technology [trends] happen in the first half, then the second half will be lower than all capacity additions needed.
How much lower? That's a bit too early to say. But clearly first-half technology trend and transitions; and second half, probably a lot less.
Thank you.
On EUV throughput, yes, and on that we've made good progress. We've agreed with our customers the targets for 2016, and we have good confidence that we are going to get there. You have to look at 2016 as, I would say, the last phase in the EUV introduction of where our customers are developing their next nodes for which they are planning their production output in 2018 and 2019. So, it's the last phase of the development node, and the qualification of those architectures that we will see in 2018, 2019, hitting the market.
That means that 2017 will be the year where we will start to see the start of the EUV shipments for production, and they will be used in 2018. And that will accelerate through 2018. So 2017 will see the first start to make sure we can do -- customers can do the output in 2018, which will accelerate in 2018 further on. So, that's nothing different than we said, I think, last quarter; so, no change from that respect.
Thanks, Peter.
Gareth Jenkins.
Yes, a couple if I could -- or rather one, and one follow-up. So, I just wondered if we could talk about 10 nanometer ramp, now you've got maybe a bit more visibility around it. Should we still be thinking about 10% pure wafer starts between the 2016 14 node and the 7/10 nodes, but also a 40% to 50% lithography intensity increase? Just wondered if we could elaborate on that, now you've got more line of sight. And that I have a follow-up on EUV. Thank you.
Yes, just for clarification, I just missed part of your question on your 10%. You referred to 10% (technical difficulty).
The low wafer starts, Peter, between -- so, 2016 -- 14, and 7/10.
Okay, okay, sorry. Yes, yes. Yes, it's basically --that's the assumption on the 10% that we still work with. We don't have any other data. I'll comment on that a bit later, also. The 40% litho intensity, yes, that's what node-on-node -- that's still what we think is a realistic number. On the node-on-node wafer capacity reduction, the 10% is still what we are using. You have to bear in mind that, starting from the 28 nanometer node, we see those nodes extending a lot longer than what we saw in the past.
And you've been around a long time, so you know that, between 5 and 10 years ago, nodes had a two-year life. And then the previous nodes stopped, next node came, and lasted about two years, and almost all logic customers moved in that same time period, which is less the case today, or not the case today. We see the initial acceptance of a new node being driven by the leading-edge customers. And they install, rather swiftly and rather fast, a quite a significant amount of capacity. And then you see the other customers in that segment, you could say the second-tier customers, following later.
That is also what we see today. 28 nanometer is still being shipped, even in Q1 of 2016, which is more than four years after the initial introduction. So, you can see kind of a camel back in the first phase of that node, and then a much longer tail. Which also makes it more difficult for us to say how much will that wafer capacity for that node be. We assume 10%, but over time we will -- it needs to be proven whether this is the correct number.
That's fair. And just one follow-up. It looks like your Chinese orders are very strong, somewhere around EUR500 million, which I would assume is mostly Dalian. Can you just give us a sense of your market share into China through the course of this year, or rather on those orders?
Well, our market share in China has always been pretty good, and it will stay pretty good. I'm not going to give you an exact number, but we have no worries about our market share in China.
Okay, thanks.
Jerome Ramel.
Good afternoon. Jerome Ramel from Exane BNP Paribas. Peter, just want to come back to the point you made that your clients seem to be keen on moving to the 10 nanometer node because that's a [terrific] count improvement compared to the 16/14 versus the 20. Could you just give us a sense what is better? Is it the term of yield, it's in term of cost per transistor? What would make the 10 nanometer node more attractive than the 16/14?
Yes. From a lithography point of view, the 16/14 node is very similar from a little half-pitch dimension point of view, very similar to the 20 nanometer node. So you really should not go past 16 and 14, from a litho pitch point of view, to 10, but really 20 to 10. And that's a big shrink. And, as you know, shrink has a big impact on the cost per bit. And so it is driven by cost per bit. And for some customers, actually it's also value; just putting more functionality on the same square surface. That's what's driving it.
So you'd see -- to make clear, you see the cost per transistor going down at 10 nanometer node?
Yes. Yes.
Okay. And maybe just one follow-up. You gave guidance for the full year -- I mean quantitative guidance for the memory -- so Flash being flat, and DRAM going down. I'm not sure I understood for logic and foundry what the trend are, in term of quantitatively compared to 2015.
Well, I think the -- Wolfgang said the first quarter is relatively benign, but we really see the ramp starting in Q2. And then also we are extending into IDM, not only for foundry but also IDM on 10 nanometer, which will be the remainder of the year, which will drive the remainder of the year. Now, if you just look at the size of that ramp -- and the ultimate size for this year is always a bit difficult to predict in the third week of January, so as we are very early in this year.
But if you look at that -- what customers are telling us, it's going to be a significant ramp, and will be driven by the leading-edge players, not so much by the followers, which will follow on, I said as an answer to an earlier question, which will probably have a much longer tail. But the initial ramp up we are seeing will be significant, and that causes us to state that the 2016 logic market for us will be significantly higher than 2015.
For logic, that includes logic and foundry, or that's just purely logic?
That's logic versus foundry and IDM.
Okay. Thanks.
C.J. Muse.
Good afternoon, C.J. Muse with Evercore ISI. I guess first question, I know there's a lot of moving parts here, but curious what are the key milestones we should be watching for EUV to be designed in at the 7 nanometer node.
I think we mentioned those. I think, for our customers, it's most important that they have a certain level of productivity. But it's very important that when you start planning your production, that availability is critical. So, the 80% availability target is what we agreed with our customers. This is what we are, at least, following. I also like to refer to our presentation, where you can see that.
On productivity, quite interesting: one of our key customers -- in the question that was asked recently on where the 500 wafers spread day would be sufficient for them to go into production, assuming a reliable or a, let's say, good availability of the tool. And the answer was yes, they would use it. So, you can draw a conclusion from that answer, that it's not so much now about the productivity, it is about the availability. So this is what we are really focusing on this year.
That's helpful. And as a follow-up, in terms of foundry logic spend this year, clearly a very good year for 10 nanometer. Curious if you could share your thoughts on the mix this year between 10 nanometer China foundry spending year-over-year, as well as whether you're seeing any incremental capacity adds at the 14/16 nanometer nodes. And then to follow on to that, your expectations for that 10 nanometer ramp to continue into 2017.
Yes, I made some notes. The 10 nanometer ramp is predominantly outside China, if you refer to China. When we see China -- the Chinese logic or foundry market, we are clearly focusing on the nodes before 10. So the 28 nanometer node is still relatively strong in China, but also very clear indications of the move to 16 and 14. And that is where we see Chinese foundries going. Like I said, the 10 nanometer ramp will be outside China.
2017 is a good question. I think it's too early for us to say anything about 2017. I think what we'll have to go through is the next two, three quarters of the initial ramp, which we have a pretty decent visibility of. And 2017 will be driven, I think, by the end markets. And we'll just -- a bit too early to comment on that, C.J. (multiple speakers).
But C.J., directionally for 2016, the 10 nanometer will make up the majority of our shipments. But there will still be 28 and 16 and 14 shipments as well.
Yes, but those are then predominantly in the direction of China, and somewhat in Taiwan.
Great. Thank you so much.
Mr. Hosseini.
Mr. Hosseini, you can ask your question.
Sound like he's not there, operator. Want to go to the next one?
Amit Harchandani, Citi.
This is Amit Harchandani from Citigroup. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Two questions: firstly, with regards to a topic that does come up often for discussion, which is equipment reuse -- we've heard some of your peers talk about it, the customers talk about it. Could you give us a sense for how you see equipment reuse impacting your prospects for this year as compared to last year? I'm also looking forward to your medium-term financial roadmap across the different end segments. So that would be my first question, and I have a follow-up.
Okay. The equipment reuse is always -- it appears to dominate some of our discussions lately, but it's always been there. Large IDMs have always done this, and it's a very sensible way to manage your capital efficiency. Now, with tool prices going up to where they currently are -- advanced DPV prices are EUR50 million -- there is more and more focus of our customers on capital efficiency.
And the reuse program, which we have designed by adapting the architecture in such a way that we can upgrade from one node to the other. And with litho intensity going up with about 40% node-on-node. And there's a very clear driver of our customers to say, what part of my installed base can we upgrade to the next node? That's called a reuse. That doesn't cover the 40% litho intensity at all. It just covers part of it.
And we have had situations whereby reuses, let's say upgrades, were planned on the previous node, that never happened because the previous node extended longer than the original planning. So, it's nothing new. I think it's going to be part of our business going forward. Very healthy part, if you think about an extensive upgrade from a 1950 to a 1970, for instance, is a EUR20 million-plus upgrade, with these margins. Which is good business for us; helps us increase our services and option sales business, and helps our customers to manage their installed base.
So I think it's going to be part of our business, going forward. It might be new to some of our peers. But it isn't to us because, our tools have always been one of the most expensive in the customer fabs. So, it's here to stay, and it's good.
Thanks, Peter. And then just to clarify, the extent of reuse that you're seeing out there right now is in line with your 2020 financial roadmap?
Absolutely. Yes, in our 2020 roadmap, we have actually included that reuse. It is an inevitable event. And the level of reuse that we are seeing is very much in line with our expectations.
Thank you. And just as a follow-up if I may, Wolfgang, could you kindly just once again explain or elaborate upon your comment of EUV revenue recognition for this year? I'm afraid I did not catch it correctly. Was it EUR110 million in the middle of the year? So what are we looking for, in terms of EUV revenues this year? If you could shed some light on that. Thank you.
You got that right. Well, first of all, we told you that while we're in this transition period where we can recognize not when a tool leaves our factory, we will give you guidance as we ship the tools. And I said we shipped three tools last year, and of which only one recognized. And on top of that, we started the shipment of another tool. Of the two tools that shipped and have not recognized last year, and the tool that has started to ship, from these three tools together you should expect approximately EUR110 million in revenue. And that will be somewhere in the Q2, Q3, mid-year time frame. And the balance of the revenue will likely recognize in 2017.
Now (multiple speakers) the starting point, and then we also said that we will ship more tools this year. And those, of course, will -- we also told you there is, for instance, a 3300 amongst them, which will recognize faster because there the recognition rules are different because we just need to demonstrate that we can print the wafer. So there's more to come, so you've got to bear with us as we make these shipments.
And lastly, I'll say also that we will start to see some service revenue in the EUV field. We already had some last year. Our total revenue was about EUR100 million or so, and only a little bit over EUR60 million came from systems. So you have to bear with us, Amit. We will give you information as we go through the year.
Just to confirm, a minimum of EUR110 million, but the actual number could vary depending on your updates as you go through the quarters now?
That is correct.
Thank you.
Mr. Sanganeria. One moment.
Yes. Okay, so you said memory at similar level to Q4, which was about EUR350 million, down 35%. So, first half at that level, and second half you said decline. That will indicate a significant down, year-over-year. Did I understand that clearly?
Well, I referred to DRAM system. And since we don't split out DRAM in the fourth quarter results -- so, DRAM shipments will be about equivalent to Q4. NAND will be over the year, year-on-year, will be about flat.
Okay. And I want to follow up on the China. You had pretty strong orders on China; somebody mentioned EUR500 million, pretty close. And mostly, probably on NAND side, is that shipment to China mostly in Q2?
That shipment starts in Q1.
Starts in Q1?
And (multiple speakers) will continue.
All right. Thank you.
Mehdi Hosseini.
Peter, going back to your 2015 performance, your foundry revenues were up 36%, but immersion systems shipment was down, and ASPs were down, too. Can you help me understand how did this mix change, despite the fact that foundries were up so much? And I have a follow-up.
For 2016, you said?
2015.
Yes. Foundry shipments are up -- the ASP -- we shipped significantly more systems altogether. And they were also KrF and other systems in there. So like-for-like, the ASP didn't go down; but because of the mix, the ASP went down.
Yes, and it's KrF.
Does not reflect that foundries spend more on their trailing edge versus leading edge?
That is absolutely -- like we said earlier, we are currently shipping a different node layers. We're -- 28 nanometer, 14/16, the first 10 nanometer R&D tools. So it's quite a mixed bag of those tools. So to draw a conclusion on ASPs or ASP trends is a bit difficult because it's quite a mixed bag. But what we can say is that with every node transition, the ASP goes up because of the richer configuration, including a lot more holistic litho options.
Now in 2015, which is true, we had a mixed bag of 28 nanometer node, 14/16 nanometer node, and some early 10 nanometer node shipments. So, I think it's a bit difficult. And it did include, as we put in the presentation, there's a lot more KrF.
Okay. And then my final question [is actually] China. Can you elaborate more whether the key end markets or device stock that is driving such a strong growth in backlog, as it relates to China?
Well, it's both foundry and now also memory. So it's shipped due -- so it's the ship to region is indeed stronger. And that's because memory is now also adding, on top of the logic shipments, which are predominantly driven by 28 nanometer.
So there is a new NAND fab that is coming online, but also one of your Korean customers has a fab [Icheon]. How should we think about the mix -- new fab/existing fab on the 3-D NAND, and also the foundry market? Is it evenly split, or is one more than the others?
Well, I think there are existing fabs and the refurb fab -- one of the existing fabs that you referred to is already full. So, that means that the refurb fab is going to take tools. That's what it is. It's as simple as that, and not more difficult than that.
Got it. Thank you. (multiple speakers)
Pierre Ferragu.
Good morning, it's Pierre Ferragu, Bernstein. So, I have a question on your gross margin for the back end of the year. If I understand you correctly, foundry is going to be very strong. That's a 10 nanometer node. It's very high-end tools, a lot of options and upgrades, and memory is going to be low. So should we expect a very, very healthy gross margin development beyond Q2? So in Q3 and Q4, gross margin should be also heading in the right direction? So that's one question.
And then I have just a quick follow-up on EUV. I got, at some point, confused about insertion. By understanding is that both your IDM customers and your foundry customers are going to insert EUV at the 5 nanometer nodes, so not the next one but the one after. Is that also how you see the world from where you are?
And then maybe on this 5 nanometer node insertion, how much visibility do you have today on how heavy an insertion it is going to be? Are we going to use EUV tools only at a very, very low level for the first layers? Or are we heading into a more massive adoption of EUV at this 5 nanometer node? Thanks.
Yes, let me answer that EUV question first. Whether it's called 5 nanometer or 7 nanometer, I don't want to go into that nomenclature, because there is a lot of confusion about what is what. I'm also not going to tell you what we believe the lithography pitch is, because that's what's probably going to make it easier to understand that we're talking about this same thing.
What is most important -- and that's what we should focus on, is whether you call it 5 or whether you call it 7 -- our customers, our leading-edge customers, make it very clear to us that they will start the output of their chip architectures that need EUV -- whether that's 5 or whether that's 7, and I don't know how they call it, and I don't care -- but when they need EUV for output is 2018 starting; 2018, 2019. Which actually means that our shipments for production purposes need to start in 2017. It takes about a year to really qualify for a production run.
So, this is what we are focused on. This is what we are discussing with our customers. And this is also driving the decision points and the entry points for our customer for production insertion. It's this 2018-2019 time frame (multiple speakers).
Okay, and in terms of the volume of insertion, so is that going -- do you have already visibility? And how high in the architecture of the chip EUV is going to be used? Is it just going to be the most critical layers, or more than that? Do you have that visibility already, or is that still something that has to be defined?
Yes, we have that visibility -- reasonable visibility from our customers. But it actually leads us to believe what we said in the past that the first year of volume ramp -- and, as you know, with the lengthening of the nodes -- we discussed it a couple of quarters ago -- everything is about 6 to 12 months later than we thought about a year ago. But we believe that the initial year of the production shipment will be a dozen or so tools. And then this will double every year that we move on.
So, we are still -- all our simulation models still show the same thing. So the first year of the production shipments is about a dozen tools. And then it will double the year after that, and double the year after that. (multiple speakers) right model.
And that's related to the gross margin question, Pierre. Yes, you are right from the direction in the second half, as logic will be a bigger part of it. Directionally, margin goes up. Of course, we don't know the exact volume yet, so we can't describe that volume effect; but, directionally, you are right. One caveat: if there's a concentration of EUV revenue recognition in a quarter, you will see some distortion. But when we get to that bridge, we will explain to you how that works, and show you the margin without EUV as well.
Excellent. Thank you very much.
Andrew Gardiner.
Thank you. It's Barclays. Good afternoon, guys. Just another one on EUV. In terms of the -- looking at the milestones you are targeting for this year, I'm just trying to understand roughly when we might be able to get a better idea as to how you are making progress.
You seem to be in a bit of a gap at the moment. Clearly, the customers have the 3300 tools installed and running, and those are a lot of the metrics you are talking about. The 3350s are there, or on their way. So when can we expect to see some of the first news on the 3350 tools at the customer sites? Is SPIE too early, or is it going to be a bit later than that?
That's a good question. You pointed out the 3350 is really the tool that has the improvements on it that will give us the 1,500 wafers per day and the 80% availability capability. Those tools are just starting to ship. They need to be installed. The installation only takes a quarter or three months, which actually makes it too late for any significant information on the SPIE conference, which is in February. So it will be around mid-year. That's what you need to focus on.
Okay. And then just a quick follow-up. You've highlighted the 6 to 7 EUV tool shipments this year. Can you give us any sense as to when those are coming? Or you haven't really -- I know there's no revenue recognition for those tools. But just in terms of the rough timing of shipment to -- for us to gauge when those are leaving the facility.
Well, they are starting to leave the facility this quarter, the first one. So it will be throughout the year. There will be tools shipping every quarter. And as to revenue recognition, Wolfgang already said it. I gave some clear guidance for the revenue recognition of the tools that we shipped last year, and the one that was in the process of shipping towards the end of the year. But of the 6 to 7 tools that will ship in this year, there will be some revenue recognition because there's a 3300 in there, which will very likely -- two of them, could be, which will book revenue.
And also on the 3350s, it depends on the commissions or the order conditions, where we can take some revenue already in 2016. So that's why Wolfgang said, it's the minimum, and there's very likely going to be EUV revenue on top of that in the course of the year.
Understood. Thanks very much, guys.
Francois Meunier.
I just wanted to have some technical details about this 3350B that you are currently running in your factory. And first, congratulations for achieving the 1,250 wafers per day in Q4. That's a great achievement. What is, or what was, the availability of this machine actually during Q4? And maybe if you could give us some details about the laser which was used, if it was a 120 watts or a different laser source for EUV? That's the first question.
The second question is -- I know it's a bit cheeky, but it's good to announce the EUR1 billion share buyback. But why not more, given the progress made by EUV [adornment] and your confidence in the 2020 target of EUR10 billion revenues? Thank you.
Well, I'll start with the second part, and then Peter the first part. Well, this is just another layer. We have a very clearly stated financial policy that says we evaluate what our minimum cash needs are, then we service the dividend first; that we want to have at least stable, preferably growing. Last six years, we have always been growing it. And then all the balance will go towards share buybacks.
Now, we just roll out layers of these share buybacks. And as soon as we have used up the money, we will introduce the next layer of (technical difficulty) be concerned by that at all. We're executing and the financial policy. And as we generate the free cash flow, once we are through the remaining 1.5, you should expect us to announce the next tranche.
On your question on the technical details of the 3350, well, we started shipping the 3350 in our factory, and we measure availability at that customer sites. While we haven't installed it yet and are running it at the customer sites, so it would be a bit difficult to give you an answer there. It's too early.
Also to the question of -- there's an earlier question: when are we going to see data on availability and wafer spread per day? Probably more towards the middle of the year.
So the technical details -- but there are some features in the 3350, like the in situ cleaning and some other features, that give us the confidence that we should have a higher availability and also a higher throughput. Not so much because we have a stronger laser; the laser is the same, but more because of the transparency of the illuminator and the optics that gives us a better transmission. And that's why we get better throughput.
Okay. Thank you.
Mr. Ahmad.
Hello, this is Farhan Ahmad from Credit Suisse. Thanks for taking my question. Peter, my first question is regarding 3D NAND. I just wanted to make sure I understand correctly, relative to your last call, it seems like you are up-ticking on the overall NAND CapEx. And I wanted to understand whether the linearity of the CapEx is also more weighted like the DRAM CapEx in the first half, or do you expect the NAND CapEx to be more evenly split throughout the year?
Well, the 3D NAND guidance is up as compared to last quarter, where we thought we were going to be down in this year. But that's because we have this new refurb fab of 3D NAND in China. That actually came up. And it's relatively flat throughout the year, so it's not a big bias to one or the other half.
Got it. And then relative to your NXE:3350 systems, they are supposed to get you to about 80% availability and 1,500 wafers per day. Where do you see the performance in the lab today? And what should we expect when the tools are at the customer's site? Should we start getting like 1,500 wafers per day from the get-go, or will that take some time to get demonstrated at the customer sites?
Well, what customers will actually do, because they are very expensive machines, they will always ramp these tools slowly. They go through a process of qualification, and then they will start increasing the power; they will start increasing -- with increasing the power, they will get more wafers. So it's going to be through cycles of learning. So, it is not to be expected that they will go gung-ho from day one. They will probably say, let's start where the 3300 left off, and then they are going to gradually increase.
Got it. Thank you. That's all I had.
Patrick Ho.
Stifel Nicolaus. Peter, just in terms of the EUV insertion at the 7 nanometer logic node, do you believe the change in cadence with their tick-tock process -- do you believe that buys you a little more time, in terms of guaranteeing the insertion for high-volume production at 7 nanometers?
Well, I don't think they are that related. Customers have their plans, and whether they follow cadence A or cadence B. What they tell us is that they need their production output in a certain period, in a certain year, which is starting (technical difficulty) and in 2018. And then you just calculate back, using the cycle time that we need. And then we come to a moment where we need to start shipping the tool.
And what ultimately drives the decision of the customer to say, I need that output in 2018 or 2019 -- there are many, many reasons. It is not only cadence. It is also time that they need to actually develop that next node. And, for us, it's not that relevant. Most relevant is when do they need the tool? When do they tell us that they need the tool? And that's [for] 2018-2019 output, 2017 shipment, starting for us.
Right. And my follow-up question, in terms of the holistic lithography growth that you've seen over the last few years, how do you project the growth first in 2016 and maybe over the next couple of years? Given that it's gotten strong adoption, do you see the growth rates tapering out somewhat? Or where do you expect to continue to see that growth in that segment of your business?
Yes, so, in 2014, our holistic lithography business was just over EUR500 million. Last year, it was over EUR600 million, so it's growing nicely. We've previously talked about by 2017, 2018, we want to be at EUR1 billion for this business. And as a reminder, to a very large degree, a software type of business with very healthy gross margins, only the yields start being the hardware there.
And then you can anticipate that it will continue to grow going into our 2020 plan. It's part of helping us on the accretion of the gross margin to a 50% level. And we have also started to see, and reported back to you, that customers are evaluating some of the software features for EUV, as well. So it's not going to go away when EUV is coming in.
Yes, and I think just to add to this, I think on the total service end option sales, which includes holistic litho that Wolfgang referred to, in our model we see that growing from the EUR2 billion where we are today to the EUR3 billion to EUR3.5 billion by that time, by 2020.
Great. Thank you.
Excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen, we have time for one last call. So if you were unable to get through on this call and still have questions, please feel free to contact the Investor Relations department with your question, and we'll get back to you soon as we can.
Now, Arran, can we have the last caller please?
Timothy Arcuri.
Cowen and Company, thanks. I had two questions. I guess first of all, Peter, just on the overall 2016 outlook -- I know you said that DRAM is going to be down a lot, NAND is flat, and logic is up a lot due to 10 nanometer. So, where do you and Wolfgang think that that leaves us for the year? Obviously it's going to be up, but how much? Is up 10 a comfortable number for the year, at least?
Well, we're all well-trained accountants. So if you take 2015, and I would give you a percentage up, we would guide you for 2016, which we said we weren't going to do. So, unfortunately, we have to stick to what we call this qualitative guidance. And I think throughout the year we get -- there's a better feel for how the back end of the year is developing, and really talk about really the Q4 back end of 2016.
Okay. And then just to follow up on China, I know that there was some questions asked about this. But the big order number of roughly $500 million -- sounds like this is really 3D NAND. But if I divide the numbers, that suggests it's like 120,000 of wafer starts worth of capacity. And we know that the Korea fab in China is full, and the only fab this big is the one that's still searching for a technology partner. I think the fab you talked about in the prepared remarks was half this size. So are we seeing orders for this other fab that is still looking for a technology partner? Or is my math not right?
Let me make one thing clear: China is not only 3D NAND. That's a new feature of the Chinese market, on this particular refurb fab. But it's only part of the story. There's also Chinese foundries in there. So there's also onesies and twosies shipment to a fab that are almost full. So it's a mixed bag. It's definitely not only 3D NAND.
Okay. Thanks so much.
Yes, okay.
Well, thank you, everybody. On behalf of ASML's Board and management, I'd like to thank you for joining us on the call today.
So, operator, if you could formerly close the call, we'd appreciate it. Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the ASML 2015 fourth-quarter and annual results conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect your line.