Eric Sheridan, UBS.
Thank you so much for taking the question.  Sundar,  maybe for you, on the enterprise, thanks for laying out all the vision for the medium to long term on enterprise and Cloud. One of the big questions we get from investors all the time are where the key areas you need to invest going forward, in both capabilities and go to market, and how those might evolve over the next couple of years?
And then maybe a second question for Ruth, which one housekeeping matter.  Ruth, with highlighting the increased marketing expense behind the product launches this year, were you referencing quarter over quarter or compared year over year, when you  also launched products a year ago. Thanks so much.
On Cloud, let me talk about a few areas. We have stepped up our partnering considerably, so that we can offer customers everything they want, and we have more vehicles for going to market. So scaling up through partnerships is a big area of focus and investment for us. We are also establishing a large Cloud machine learning group, so that we can take advantage of working with our Cloud customers, and make machine learning more accessible to all of them. I would say other areas are hiring across sales, engineering and marketing. And as we head into 2017, I expect Cloud to be of our largest areas of investment and headcount growth.
And then on your second question, there are really two parts to the statement. One, pretty obvious, is that just marking is seasonally higher whenever you go to the holiday season, and so year on year, I wanted  just to accentuate the point that we expect this trend to be pronounced this year, because we're expanding and we're launching an even more expanded suite of hardware products. So I was really emphasizing the fact that the fourth quarter is higher, and even more so this year with the expanded suite.
Thank you.
Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.
I also wanted to ask a follow-up on the Cloud.  I guess, I was wondering Sundar, if you could share with us what  milestones should we be watching for in this business? And then also if you had to characterize, you mentioned a couple of different ones, but I'm wondering what type of workloads are you having most success with in GCP, and  what's on your customers wish lists? What are the things, what's the top one or two things that your enterprise customers for Cloud might be asking for? Thanks
Thanks, Heather. In general, the way we see is that customers don't want to be locked in, and they want to make sure their workloads can work in, and be managed by containers that run on any platform. So our virtual machines and containers, including excellent open-sourced container management communities, which was  developed by Google, offers that solution. So communities just manages the provisioning, reliability, and order scaling of workloads. So we want to pursue a hybrid strategy, including on prem, and in all public Clouds. So from a customer standpoint, they will want to use an open source workload management product, and communities can work with multiple customers. So that's broadly how we think about it.
Ross Sandler, Deutsche Bank.
Two questions.  Sundar, first on the Alphabet  structure high level, so there's been some incredible innovation that's come out of Alphabet at the various businesses. If we look at something like Auto, which was acquired by Uber, or Niantic, which was the old Google Maps team, those were teams that were inside working so inside of Google better left Alphabet to start a new company, and could have been potentially wholly-owned businesses as Google in a parallel universe. So do you think the structure is ideal for entire companies, or is it just new products and new technologies, that you see as the vision here for Alphabet long-term?
And then Ruth, the second question, just on core operating margins for Google declined a little bit versus the prior quarter trend of increasing. Can you just give some color on how much of that was due to mix towards Cloud and other things that might carry lower margin versus margin compression within the advertising business? Thank you.
Ross, on  the first question I would say overall, when you look across Google and Alphabet, the number of areas where we been able to build world-class products and achieve scale and success, we have over seven products which serve 1 billion users each, so I think our track record speaks there. And we generally want to create the culture of innovation, and that's what we focus on. And I think it's very fine that some of them happen outside, so we don't view it as a zero-sum game, and we're very comfortable with how we approach it.
And then in terms of the margin trends, so overall operating margins year on year are up modestly on both the GAAP  and non-GAAP basis, and that primarily reflects trends in Other Bets. I think your question was probably more within  Google, the operating margin on a non-GAAP basis is down modestly year on year, that's primarily to other cost of sales, as distinct from TAC. The Google GAAP operating margins year on year and quarter on quarter do reflect the impact of the equity refresh that we called out last quarter, that I talked about.
I think one of the core things to your question is just as how we are looking at it, and our view continues to be that given the breadth of opportunities, and our commitment to long-term revenue growth, as we have talked about quarter after quarter, we do remain committed to investing in this growing set of opportunities, and we spend a lot of time trying to manage that revenue growth, and as I've said, manage expense growth with this -- the utmost respect for the resources deployed, and getting the best return on those resources.
So there are number of different factors in here.  I think I mentioned one of the things as you're looking forward was the sales and marketing. And just to make another point, which I said in my opening comments, we do expect ongoing gross margin pressure from higher TAC in association with mobile search and with programmatic. That does still result in more revenue and gross profit dollars, but at a lower margin, and that's the other really important point, our starting point. We are continuing to invest, and we will point you to the revenue and gross profit dollars that come from that.
Mark Mahaney, RBC Capital Markets.
With Google Home and the Pixel phones, are you rethinking at all your go-to-market strategy in terms of distribution and marketing Google over the years, put out different hardware products. Have there been   learnings from that, that make you approach those two particular areas in Google Home and the Pixel phone line up differently? Thank you.
Thanks, Mark. And as you point out, we've done hardware products all over the years. But we saw an opportunity to bring all our display hardware progress together in a thoughtful structure.  I'm glad Rick is here, and we been very focused on how we approach everything end to end, so that we can bring together software and hardware for a great user experience. So along those lines, both Google Home in Google Pixel are important new efforts for us, and I think we will thoughtfully evolve our go-to-market strategy, as well. These are   important areas, and you already see with the Google Pixel, we have a deep partnership with Verizon, with which are going to market in the US. And so we're constantly thinking about how to do this well, and you'll see new approaches as we go through it more.
Douglas Anmuth, JPMorgan.
Sundar, you talked a lot about products across advertising and hardware.  I think one thing we did not about was Maps, and you've talked about it in the past as 1 billion plus users and pretty massive engagement. So can you talk a little bit more about the monetization strategy here, and how you can really sell more advertising here, but also preserve the user experience at the same time? And maybe talk about the time frame that we could see more here? Thanks.
That's a good question. Today, a big part of what you are seeing with our transition to mobile that's working really well, the reason mobile search and mobile monetization works really well for us is because a lot of it is inherently local by nature. And the thing which -- that helps us deliver a great local search experience is Maps, and so that's the direction we've always pointed in. We want it to be a great experience for consumers as Google Maps, but in terms of also really enhancing the local search experience. And I think you'll continue to see us pursue it that way, and over time  to the extent there are opportunities to create value within the application itself, we will pursue that as well.
Peter Stabler, Wells Fargo Securities.
I wanted to ask one about Voice. Sundar, you have talked  about the success you've had in improving your natural language recognition, and we know that Voice queries are growing quickly. Wondering if you could share your thoughts on how the increase in Voice queries may or may not impact monetization going forward. Is it a risk,  or is the growth of voice queries much more skewed to less commercial activity? Just any thoughts there. Thanks so much.
Thanks, Peter. From my standpoint, I look at it as, and if you look back in time, all this is -- computing is becoming more important to people, so they are engaging with it more and more. So as we went from desktops to mobile, it's not like one replaced the other. The sum total of all of this, it expanded the pie.  I approach this the same way, I think, as I see people using Voice, et cetera. They are interacting more with computing and with Google, too. So we view this as providing us more access across many different surfaces, many different contexts, being there for them when they need it. So in that view, I think it will all be a positive for us going forward.
Brian Nowak, Morgan Stanley.
Thanks for taking my question. Just to just to go back to the voice search question, Sundar, could you talk about if we do continue to migrate toward a world of voice search, could you just talk about infrastructure? Potential building that you need to put in place to continue to monetize search in a voice world, as well as you do in a phone or a desktop world. Secondly, could you talk a little bit about where you are in the role of extended text ads? I know you talked about a 20% bump to click-through rates. Just curious  for where you are now? A push out, and is there any update on the click-throughs?  Thanks.
On the first question, I think I briefly answered it before. In terms of we're thinking about the Voice experience deeply end to end. A lot of it is going,   because of how we are approaching our core investments, both from a software and hardware standpoint, so we leverage it all to make it better.  So for example, even things like TPUs, which we talked about of Google I/O, played a role into something like Voice search you're talking about.
And as we evolve the Google Assistant, I think Voice is going to play a major role that way as well. So we are in very early days of all of this, in relation to our overall volumes we see, and so I think we will be thoughtful about it. For example, the Assistant team talked about conversational actions as a way by which we can integrate third parties into the voice experience. So it's early days, and I think we will evolve a lot  in the coming years.
In terms of your second question around expanded text ads, I would say, again it's early. It's been adopted by advertisers across the board. We see both large and small advertisers using it, for us, we find advertisers who actually spend their time being thoughtful about the ad creatives and extensively testing and optimizing for this new format, they find strong performance. So we're pleased with the progress so far, but the transition is going to take some time, as advertisers get comfortable with it. But we are excited about it.
Anthony DiClemente, Nomura.
First one, for Ruth,  heading into this quarter's results, you  had called out the ad format change in the third quarter of last year, which had  driven a step up in the year-ago growth rate. I wonder,  is there anything specific on the revenue side that you'd like to call out in terms of comparisons versus the fourth quarter of last year, as we try  to calibrate our revenue expectations for the fourth quarter, either in terms of mobile search, YouTube, or AdTech programmatic?
And then my second question is either for Ruth or Sundar, could you talk about the decision to pause efforts for Google Fiber? Wondering, was that decision more about financial discipline as you, I think, explained, Ruth, in your prepared remarks for the Other Bets. Or is it more has to do with the shift to wireless Internet technology or point-to-point wireless which ultimately can take the place of a Fiber or facilities-based infrastructure over time? Thank you.
Okay, great. Two  good questions. So in terms of sites revenue, we are very pleased by the strength. It was broad-based. It had two real drivers.
First, the ongoing our ongoing focus on improving the experience for advertisers and users. And we introduced a number of enhancements including format changes and ad totals.  I think the most important point is that no one enhancement came close to   the magnitude of the changes that we made the third quarter of last year.  That's why we kept calling out the 2015 change. And what's been gratifying is, in the aggregate, the results reflect the benefit of ongoing innovation, but very importantly, it wasn't one particular item.
The second contributor is the secular shift to mobile, and we continue to benefit from that, be an important part of enhancing opportunities for engagement. As we look forward to the fourth quarter, I think that was part of your question, as well.  I think the only thing to point out is that in looking at growth rates, we're obviously at a  revenue growth base versus last year, so just that to us is an important point to -- maybe obvious, but important to note there.
In terms of Fiber, the impetus for it was really about the opportunities that we see to focus on innovation, and what is does that mean if the objective with Other Bets is really these 10X  opportunities. And  when you go back to the initial impetus for creating the business, it was the Founders' view that there's  a sizable opportunity, given the need for abundant connectivity on networks that  are always fast and always open, and we do continue to be committed to that vision.
The team had some important breakthroughs in new technologies. You noted the most important in our view, all that we are doing with wireless, but also technologies that are key to  implementation. And we believe that both of those, a number of things that are doing to enhance both our effectiveness and efficiency. And so we wanted to focus on the potential with these efforts before we reaccelerate deployment, and it was about being -- ensuring that we can take advantage of those, before again pushing forth.
We are very active in a lot of cities. In the third quarter alone, we rolled out four new cities, so that brings us to 12 cities across the US, where we are deployed, in construction, or in development. And we're making great progress in those cities.
We remain very committed to growth across those cities, and then we also have  a presence in six cities with our wireless acquisition, Webpass. So we're pausing for now our work in eight cities, where we've been an exploratory discussions, but very much to your question, it's to better integrate some of the technology work we've been developing, and there's more detail in cities on the Fiber side to the extent you want to go into  those.
Stephen Ju, Credit Suisse.
So Sundar, it seems like from the outside looking in, the pace of product development and release seems to have accelerated, while at the same time, it seems like you're getting efficiencies with the assets you're deploying to run your  business, as your CapEx growth is moderating. So I'm wondering what concrete steps you may  have taken to increase productivity, or focus of the Company, and what you're doing now to continue to drive those gains going forward? And separately, as you called out earlier, you are shipping an unprecedented amount of hardware devices. So as you think about what your product portfolio might look like over the next five years or even the next decade, does the Pixel phone mark a change in direction for Google to become maybe more of an integrated software and hardware company? Thanks.
Thanks, Stephen. On the first thing, I would say, we are very focused on our core mission, and we see a huge opportunity to do that in a unique way, thanks to what we view as a point of inflection with machine learning, so refocusing the Company on a set of initiatives, recognizing that point of inflection, is what has helped us  really  focus on things. And things like the Google Assistant  are a manifestation of that, and you will see us continue to stay focused, and innovate that way.
In terms of hardware, I think in our vision, computing is becoming more and more integral. It's going to be there for users in many different contexts, and so to really think and evolve it, you need to think about software and hardware together. That's where a lot of innovations happen, and so for us to push the paradigm, push the boundary, we're very committed to doing that.
So it's a thoughtful effort from us, but overall, as I said in my remarks, we deeply remain committed to building an open ecosystem, because at the end of the day, we want  Google to be there for every user, everywhere, and to do that well, we want to work with partners, and build a great ecosystem to make it happen.
And just to add a bit more to Sundar's first answer, first response to your question about efficiency, as it is expressed through CapEx spend, I think it's probably helpful to add, the pace of spend reflects the ongoing success of the team, deriving meaningful efficiencies in planning and operations for our technical infrastructure. And that's enabled us to support growing demand, but at the stable investment level.
We have talked about that on prior calls as well. But I think we're proud of what they've been doing there. Some examples of efficiencies include improvement in server utilization, and the use of machine learning that Sundar has talked about, and the deployment of innovations like our sensor processing units that he has commented. So the main thing is we're building greater productivity with existing machines, and what's important to note is that's not  only good for Google products generally, but it's also valuable to our Cloud offering for our enterprise customers.
Ken Sena, Evercore ISI.
Sundar, you mentioned a point of inflection within machine learning. Can you talk about more about the trade-offs in the productization and sale of that inflection through Google Cloud versus leveraging that innovation yourself through Google Assistant? And maybe for Ruth, just any thoughts on potential future disclosures around the Cloud business? That would be great. Thank you.
On the first one, I think we are, this is -- it's a big platform shift, and it has to be available for everyone. So we've always, just like we've done with things like Android, when we see platform shifts, we provide Android to everyone, so that's the way we think about Google Cloud.  We want to make sure that this -- that all these new capabilities for machine learning and AI are available through Google Cloud to all our partners. We don't see it as a zero-sum game.  I think internally, core to our mission, we see areas where we can execute, and we will continue to do that, but we want to do both, and we can do it thoughtfully well.
And then on your second question, we constantly look to assess if or when additional data makes sense, given specific performances. And we went through the third-quarter results, that was -- has been our intent with all of the color commentary. On Cloud, the other thing to add is that the largest percentage growth year on year in our other  revenue line, and actually even across all of our revenue lines, was in our Google Cloud platform, and  that reflects the significant momentum in compute and storage.
Justin Post, Merrill Lynch.
Sundar, I apologize if I missed it, but can you talk about machine learning in search, and how much it's making a difference over the last few quarters, and how much you still have to go? How important that is to the revenues? And then Ruth, a couple of questions. Any thoughts on whether hardware sales can make a difference to margins going forward? And also on the stock-based comp, how Google thinks about that expense internally? Thank you.
On machine learning, in areas us like Search, and even ads, on Search, we have had an effort called RankBrain, which is bringing Google Brain in the context of Search, and we've made great progress on it, but I would still, I would characterize as very early stages in terms of the long-term impact we can have. Generally, and similarly,  we are  in very, very early stages of incorporating machine learning, the newer machine learning systems and ads, and again, that's the beginning of a long journey as well. Overall, I think all of these systems are incredibly complex systems, and they are handcrafted systems over many, many years. And so over time, I think machine learning will surface newer approaches and newer insights, and so we see it as a huge area of opportunity, but it will play out over a period of time.
And then in terms of the hardware family, I think Sundar has given a lot of color on that. It's still early days with the roll out of some these newer lines that we're super excited about, and so early, to make a call on that, but certainly investing meaningfully in the line, given the importance we see in this. And then in terms of stock-based compensation, we've always said we would remain focused on long-term revenue growth, and that does require investing in talent, and we do believe equity ownership is a really valuable art of overall compensation, consistent with alignment of interests. It's something we keep an eye on, and we're mindful of the full cost of equity based compensation, and certainly look at that as part of the overall cost that we're investing in, in and across the businesses.
Dan Salmon, BMO Capital Markets.
Sundar, last month, Google was part of the founding group, the partnership for the AI, and I was just curious to hear your thoughts on what your goals are for the group, and how you may take lessons back to your leadership at Google? Thanks.
Look, I think, I'm very glad to see the group come together. We are in extraordinarily early days for AI, and it's super important that we approach it thoughtfully as an industry.  I am encouraged to see the commitment across these companies. Our goal is to promote open collaboration, help the public understand AI, and establish best practices in R&D.
Without something like this, we think ideas would develop in silos, and so I think it's good to do this to promote an informed dialogue on the AI. And so I'm pretty excited all along, just like the TensorFlow, where we are doing this in an open way, and all the other things we have done at Google.  I think it's important as we work on new technology to contribute and to give back. And so in that context, I think all of this is personally very meaningful to me.
Thank you. That concludes our question-and-answer session for today. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Ellen West  for any further remarks.
Thanks to everyone for joining us today. We  look forward to speaking with you again on our fourth-quarter 2016 call. Thank you, and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.