Thanks for taking my question. I guess this is one of the most exciting developments that we've heard about in awhile, the license agreement. And I was hoping that you could maybe provide some more color on that.
Could you help us understand, maybe just go back in time and just explain the cross-license agreement that you have with Intel? What should investors understand about that and assessing any kind of a risk associated with this IP agreement? Do you need to get -- do you check in -- do you tell Intel that this is going on, did you get clearance from them, or is this something that you just kind of run with?
And when do you -- do you have to wait for like regulatory approval to get this through? Or -- how should we think about timing and milestones? That is a lot of questions. I will stop there. Thank you.
Okay, Mark. This is Lisa. Thank you for your question. Regarding the JV that we just announced, yes, we are very excited about it, partnering with THATIC, and really focusing on the Chinese market for server processors.
What we are licensing in this agreement is microprocessor technologies and system-on-chip technologies, all of the technologies, licensed our AMD technologies. So there are no encumbrances from that standpoint.
We have closed on the deal and we are starting execution of the deal. So we've talked about, from a financial standpoint, there is a $293 million licensing payment over a number of years. What we expect is the first payment we received in the first quarter of $50 million-ish, and we expect that over the first two years that about half of the licensing payments would be paid upon completion of some development milestones.
So overall for us, I've talked about IP monetization in a very broad sense. For us, that includes patents as well as technology licensing. This one is very positive for us, not just from the standpoint that it leverages our IP, but it also gives us a very key partner in the Chinese market, which we all believe is going to be very, very important for data center growth going forward. So hopefully I addressed your questions there.
Yes, and if I may, just one quick follow-up. Are you of the view that you just can go and hit the ground running? I guess you do, because you are expecting a $50 million payment right away. But do you feel that -- is there any risk in the regulatory front on this deal? Thank you.
We don't expect any risk on the regulatory front. We believe that the technologies that we are licensing are compliant with all of the regulations -- the US regulatory issues. And I would also say that the joint venture is starting and we do believe that we will execute quickly.
Thank you very much.
David Wong, Wells Fargo.
Could you give us some idea? You called out your sequential growth guidance was in part due to graphics. Are you able to give us any feel for what sequential growth in graphics your guidance assumes?
And what products are driving the sequential growth? Does this come from Polaris? Or do Polaris revenues start after the June quarter?
Yes. So David, our sequential guidance, as we mentioned, is due to both semi-custom and graphics. I would say it is more heavily weighted on semi-custom.
But if you look at our graphics progression over the last couple of quarters, even though Q1 is normally a weaker market than Q4, we grew units overall in the desktop graphics business. So we believe that was on some of the strength of some of our new software work and our work with the ecosystem.
So going into the second quarter, again, we believe that we have an opportunity in graphics to drive some volume. Polaris is on track to launch in the middle of the year and we will expect that will drive -- further strengthen the second half.
Okay, great. And just a clarification. You mentioned $53 million license gain, but if I understand correctly, your guidance is for $25 million in the second quarter. Is that part of that $53 million? Or is that something different?
David, I can take that. So the total proceeds in the Q1 time frame are $57 million, but there are some taxes related to that. So the net cash [will result] $52 million. We recognized $7 million in Q1 of 2016. We are recognizing $25 million in Q2, and then the rest of it will be over the second half of 2016, which is the balance, $20 million.
Great, thank you.
Hans Mosesmann, Raymond James.
Can you give us a sense on Zen, based on you're hitting all your performance milestones, what part of the server market are you addressing? What's the size of the opportunity? And I am assuming that you can go after both enterprise and data center because it is an x86.  Thanks.
Yes. We are pleased with the progress on Zen. Obviously, there are lots of engineering milestones to pass, but a key one is that we are on track to sample to our priority customers in the second quarter.
In terms of the markets that we can address, yes, we do believe that Zen has broad applicability across enterprise and data center. And we will continue to work with both OEMs and ODMs to ensure that they have the right boards and platforms for our products.
Okay, thank you.
Joe Moore, Morgan Stanley.
I wonder if you could talk a little bit about how the JV is going to be set up over time. Will you compete with them with standard products within China, or is there some kind of dividing of the market? And will they be manufacturing the products through their own foundry relationships or will you be delivering them manufactured product?
Okay, so the way to think about it is the JV roadmap will be a complementary roadmap to our own server roadmap, so we think there will be enough differentiation. But taken as a whole, it will be a compelling roadmap.
In terms of foundries, I think we are not ready to talk about foundries. But we will update more about the products as we get further into the execution.
Okay. And will the monetization of this over time -- I mean, you mentioned that there is a royalty component as well. Will most of the monetization come from the licensing? Or do you think the royalty portion could be of similar size down the road?
I would say that it is probably a bit early to call that. The licensing payment is well understood. The royalties will come over time, depending on the strength of the products and the number of products that are being done.
Okay. Thank you very much.
Ian Ing, MKM Partners.
First question on the server JV. Your products are going to go up against [decent incumbency] in the China server market, so how advantaged do you think this JV will be in terms of perhaps being a locally sourced product? Are there other advantages that this JV would bring to the table to address the incumbency?
I think we believe that there is a large opportunity in the data center market across the board. That is why we are investing so much in Zen and its follow ons. As it relates to the China JV that we are doing with THATIC, I think there is a -- certainly a benefit to having someone local that has experience in the market and knowledge of the market. And THATIC is an investment consortium that is partially led by the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
So we think that both from a technical and a commercial standpoint, they will be a value-added partner in this joint venture.
Thanks. And for my follow-up, for your June guidance, you are getting some strength in from this new semi-custom ramp. How sustained should we think that ramp to be? And is it a seasonal ramp? Does it come back every year? Any granularity would help. Thanks.
As it relates to our guidance for the second quarter and then the full year, if you think about the semi-custom business in the last few years, the third quarter is always the peak. And it will be the peak this year as well. We are starting some of the ramp in the second quarter as we build up to the stronger third quarter.
But overall, I think we feel good about the semi-custom business. The business overall will grow year on year as a result of the product momentum we have.
Okay, thanks. I will re-queue.
Vivek Arya, Bank of America.
This is Shankar on behalf of Vivek. I have a question on the gross margins. Given the strong growth in Q2, why isn't the gross margin growing? And longer term, what are the levers behind the gross margin? Can it grow from 32% to 35%, 40%, and what do you have to do get there?
I think if you look at the business in particular, as I said even in my prepared remarks, you have gross margin levers. But one of the things that obviously comes into play is the mix of business between the semi-custom business or the EESC business, and then the CG business. So that obviously comes in play, as Lisa said.
We have the growth with our guidance for revenue in Q2, and it is weighted towards the semi-custom business in addition to the growth that we are seeing in graphics. And that is primarily what is driving the guidance at 31% as compared to where we came in in Q1 at the 32% level.
And then as far as the levels going on from there, I think it partly is a mix of the business overall from a viewpoint of the semi-custom business and other businesses. But also the continuing investment we are making in the roadmaps, as you see from our OpEx guidance for the rest of the year, as we want to go ahead and invest in products, in graphics, and other areas that will help us improve the gross margin. And then getting into later on when the Zen product is introduced, having even higher gross margin compared to where we are today.
Got it, thanks. As a follow-up on the semi-custom side, the -- didn't some embedded revenue will likely come in in the second half? Like you guided before -- $1 billion of total revenue spread over, I think, three years. How much of the second-half growth in semi-custom comes from embedded versus semi-custom?
So maybe let me give you some explanation on that. So the semi-custom, if you -- just to recap on what we've said about the semi-custom designs in the past, we have a total of three design wins that have a lifetime revenue of about -- let's call it $1.5 billion or greater. And that will come across over the next three to four years. In addition, we have our current game console business as well.
So when you look at the aggregate of that, we do expect to start ramping that new business in the second half of the year. But we also expect the seasonal uplift of our traditional game console business. So that is adding to what we expect will be a strong year for semi-custom overall.
If I can just slip in, the $1.5 billion you said, is that evenly split over the next three to four years or is it ramps towards the end of 2018 or so?
No, it is definitely -- I mean, it takes some time to ramp. So this year will be lower since it is half a year and it is not all the designs. And as we go into the next few years, it will ramp to a steady-state.
Okay, thank you.
Stacy Rasgon, Bernstein Research.
Thanks for taking my questions. First, on the licensing agreement, can you be a little more specific on exactly what you are licensing? You said it was like high-performance CPUs and SoCs. Is this x86? Is it ARM? Is it both? What are the other pieces besides CPUs, potentially, that you are licensing?
The -- what we are licensing is microprocessor technology and system-on-chip technology. So they are technologies, not products. The technologies are applicable to both x86 and ARM. But as you know, most of our investments are in x86.
And then in terms of other aspects, there are other aspects that are needed to put together system-on-chip. So they include things like fabrics and other IP.
So let me ask the question a different way. Will the JV be able to manufacture and sell x86-based server chips into China?
Yes. The JV will be able to manufacture and sell x86 server chips.
Thank you, thank you. I have one more question for you on IP. Is this JV exclusive? Or will you be free to sign other server-based JVs with other parties, both either inside China or outside of China?
It is not an exclusive deal.
Okay. And one more, if I could. Just on your -- sorry, in your current quarter, you launched Bristol Ridge in March. So maybe that led to some of the incremental better-than-market-unit growth. But why were ASPs overall down, given the product refresh that started? And what do you expect for pricing into Q2?
Yes, so, if you talk about the Bristol Ridge launch, we did start the launch in March, including -- on the mobile side. And that did contribute to some of the mobile units up. If you look at the overall ASPs, actually mobile ASPs were up. Desktop ASPs were down, and that is why we said overall down. But it was quite modest. So if you look overall, I think the ASP trends are about what we would expect.
Going into the second quarter in general, it depends on the mix and the mix of the product. We are certainly trying to sell further up the stack. But we will have to see how the exact mix comes out. But there is not a dramatic change in ASPs, if that is what you're asking.
Got it. Thank you.
Harlan Sur, JPMorgan.
This is Bill Peterson calling in for Harlan. Thanks for taking the question. A clarification on an earlier question. You said most of the growth is coming from semi-custom and some from graphics.
How much -- is there any channel fill or related Polaris revenue in the second quarter or planned in the second quarter? Or is it really a second-half story?
Again, not being specific, because we have not actually announced our launch date, but I would say the majority of Polaris is a second-half story.
Okay, thanks. And then more of a broader question related to PCs obviously becoming less important. But what is AMD's view on the PC market in terms of unit shipments this year? And what is the expectation in terms of AMD's growth in that segment if we think about the full year?
Yes. So again, on the PC market, I think our view of the PC market is very consistent with what's out there, probably down, let's call it, high-single digits. Certainly the first quarter started off a bit weaker than any of us would have liked.
I would say, though, that in that environment, we still believe that we can gain share in both the client compute and the graphics side. Really, as we are transitioning to a new product portfolio on the graphics side, so I think that is a strong driver for us.
And then on the client compute side, between our product refresh and also our partnership with OEMs. I think in general, OEMs are getting more comfortable using us higher up in the stack, and our A8s, our A10s, our commercial-based processors. So we are continuing to work with OEMs to ensure that we get into the right priority platforms. So that would be our focus, even in a down market.
Okay. Thanks for that.
Suji Desilva, Topeka Capital Markets.
On the arrangement with THATIC, can you talk about what end markets the server product would be specifically targeting? Is it going after government business there, research institutions, or maybe the China Internet companies?
I think it's fair to say that the market range for the joint venture will be across China, so across all of the markets that you mentioned.
Can you talk about the pipeline for the licensing business you instituted I guess -- announced a couple of quarters ago? You already have a success here. I'm wondering how robust the pipeline might be for further licensing opportunity.
Look, we are thinking about our IP monetization strategy as really a broad strategy that is going to unfold over the next number of years. So I wouldn't say that these things are all going to be immediate.
The IP monetization includes patent licensing. It includes sales of certain parts of our patent portfolio that are no longer core to our business, as well as the strategic technology licensing.
We have a good, solid pipeline. I would say it's -- there are lots of opportunities out there. We are looking for ones that are very additive to our product portfolio and to our roadmap objectives. And I think we will look for the right partners to enable that.
One last quick question; would you be -- would it be possible to tell us how long you had been in discussions with this licensing agreement to understand how long lead times are for them to close?
It is fair to say that any one of these deals takes awhile. So they are fairly involved to go through. But I think we have a good set of conversations and we certainly believe that there is a lot of value in this IP portfolio that we will continue to leverage.
Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank.
This is Sidney Ho calling on behalf of Ross. Thanks for taking my question. So first question is you talked about EESC revenue will be up annually, and I think you talk about the different components.
Just to be clear, do you expect to game console revenue specifically to be up? And kind of related to that, do you expect the C&G revenue to be up this year as well?
Again, I would like to keep it at the segment level. And at the segment level, we expect both segments to be up -- to contribute to our overall guidance of revenue being up. As it relates to our EESC business, the majority of the EESC business is semi-custom, so semi-custom would have to be up year over year. And then I think that is about as specific as I would like to get.
Okay, great. And my follow-up question is on the discrete GPU market. Your competitor has grown very nicely by, what, 35% in the last two years. Clearly, some of that is coming from share gains.
What do you think -- I mean, you guys have also gained share in Q1, seems like. What do you think the graphics market itself is growing on a normalized basis? And it wasn't that long ago you guys were like 50% share in discrete graphics.
But with the traction you are seeing right now and with Polaris right around the corner, how quickly do you think you can regain share? And which segment do you think has the biggest opportunities?
I think the graphics business is very strategic to us, and I think it is not just a unit story. It is really also the mix going to higher-end graphics, driven by VR and driven by AAA gaming, and all the things going on there.
As it relates our share, I will say that we certainly have aspirations to regain shares to our historic levels. It will take us some period of time, so it will happen over multiple number of quarters. We are optimistic about the second half of the year and we think Polaris is positioned well. We are particularly positioning in some of the mainstream segments that are higher volume, so would drive share growth faster. And we will have to see how that plays out in the second half of the year.
Great, thanks.
Christopher Danely, Citigroup.
This is Marco speaking on behalf of Chris Danely. In light of your IP licensing agreement with THATIC, can you just kind of talk about your expectations for the China server market in 2016/2017? And if are there any longer-term milestones?
Yes, so with regard to our China JV with THATIC, we are -- we're starting the development phase in 2016, so I would say that we view this as a longer-term opportunity for us. But overall, I think all of the trends in the data center market are certainly positive. We believe we can participant in those trends with both the AMD products as well as the JV products.
Thank you. And then my follow-up -- regarding your days of inventory, it looks like this quarter is about 110 days. Why is it so high? And if you -- if there's any worries.
I think if you look at it from a days standpoint, essentially we have managed the inventory pretty well. It is up slightly in Q1, but we also guided the revenue up pretty significantly from where we ended in Q1. And we have also said the second half of the year, we are expecting strength over first half, and obviously that leads to higher inventory.
So Q1 to Q2, up slightly; revenues up. And then we expect second half to be stronger than the first half.
Thank you very much.
Kevin Cassidy, Stifel.
Thank you for taking my question. On the licensing and JV, are there opportunities -- would you consider the mobile market or the desktop market?
When you say the -- you mean mobile PCs or mobile other?
Yes, notebook -- just mobile PCs.
I see. Look, I think as it relates to the overall licensing strategy, I think we are open to licensing that makes sense. And so strategically placed with the right market, with the right market drivers, I don't think we have anything that is necessarily off-limits.
I will say that it does need to be strategic and additive to our product business. Our first priority is the product business, and the IP monetization efforts is an overlay on top of that.
Okay? And what is the time frame for the JV? I guess does this license go on through the life of the patent?
It is for a number of years through the product development and sales cycle.
Okay, nothing specific right now?
Nothing specific right now.
Thank you.
Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho Securities.
Just on this licensing agreement, obviously when you license it to China, do you think they have the manufacturing or process experience to go into production with this? And what is the timeline to get commercial products in the market with this licensing agreement?
We are not talking about sort of the details of the product timelines just yet. We would like to really get the JV off and running before we disclose those details. And those will be disposed as part of the joint venture.
As it relates to manufacturing, I think there might be interest in manufacturing in China, although that is certainly not a condition of the deal.
Got it. And as you look at this semi-custom ramp, the 15% to 18%, very encouraging. How do you split it up between gaming and the new VR strategy, VR market? Obviously, VR seems to be a huge market as you look out. Thanks.
Yes, I think the way to think about it is for the near term, I think the semi-custom business and gaming is probably the larger driver. We believe VR is a strategic area where you will see more pickup over the next number of quarters and over the next years. But it is not the near-term driver.
Got it, thanks.
John Pitzer, Credit Suisse.
Lisa, I guess my first question -- when you look at your full-year guide for revenue to grow, I am kind of curious to what extent is that based upon sort of market forecast versus market share gains.
I know you don't want to get into division by division, but maybe at a high level, as you look at your year-over-year growth, how do you differentiate between what the market is doing and kind of the market share gains that you need to get to that year-over-year growth?
Yes, that is a fair question. So let me break it up into the two segments. When you look at the EESC segment and especially semi-custom, that is less about a general market and more about what we see in terms of the customer forecasts, and what they are seeing the market to be. So I think those are, let's call it, fairly well understood by us, and we are very interlocked with our customers.
When you talk about the computing and graphics market, I think that is where you get a little bit more of how much uncertainty is there with the PC market trends. There is no question that the PC market is weaker than any of us would like.
I think from our standpoint, though, if you remember the last few quarters and how many times we've talked about inventory normalization and ensuring that we got ourselves into a healthy position relative to our OEM and channel customers, I think we feel that we've done a good job there. And we are now in a place where the consumption is more in line with the selling.
So we believe that even in this market, there is enough opportunity for us to gain share, and obviously we have to prove that out over the next couple of quarters. But just given where our business is, where we see the products, and where we see the design wins, that is how we see the market right now.
And then Lisa, I apologize if you addressed this, but just going back to the JV in China, I am just kind of curious. The IP licensing gains you expected this year, are there any milestones that you need to hit to get that? And as we think about 2017, if you hit the milestones in 2017, would we expect licensing to grow year over year from the JV?
And then lastly on the JV, just given that you guys have the opportunity to go into China today and sell your own product, I am just curious how we should think about $100 of server product in the JV and what that means to you from an economic standpoint versus you just going into China today and selling $100 worth of server product as AMD.
Yes, no, good question. So look, on the JV licensing payments, we will expect about half of the licensing revenue to come over the next two years, so over 2016 and 2017. Our current forecast for 2016 was that $50-ish million that Devinder mentioned, and it is contingent on several milestones that we believe are on track.
To your broader question about why do a JV versus just selling right into servers? We are very cognizant of where our share is in servers. So I believe we have the technology to get there and we will continue to make progress.
But given the importance of China and the fact that having a partner who is very much familiar with both the Chinese market from a customer as well as just a technology standpoint I think can only be additive. And there is more than enough server market to go after, given where we are. So I think it's an additive deal to our baseline strategy.
Thanks, guys.
Deepon Nag, Macquarie.
Lisa, for the semi-custom wins that you are going to get in the back half of the year, are those going to be purely incremental to existing products? Or is there any risk of cannibalization to existing products?
I don't believe that we have gone through any detail about what those wins are, so I would prefer to let that come out as our customers are ready to launch.
Okay, thanks for that. And then on the game console side, so clearly VR is going to be a pretty big deal in Q4 with so many PS4 VR. And there has been some chatter about obviously maybe a thatcher refresh for some of the game consuls.
Because the value of graphics is becoming higher in these game consoles, is there any potential for you to get higher content, and more specifically higher margins in future console refreshes? And is there also any ability to renegotiate terms if -- because of the value of your IP is getting more valuable inside these consoles?
Let me take that in several pieces. Relative to our current game consoles, those deals were well negotiated at the beginning, and I don't think we will be renegotiating. I think the ASPs and all that stuff are also well understood.
Relative to what VR brings -- and again, not being specific to any particular customer because there is just a lot of speculation out there in the industry -- I will say that VR is very exciting, not just for game consoles, but for PC gaming, for the headset guys, for the ecosystem. So yes, we believe that graphics becomes much more valuable in this framework, and we will be looking for how to leverage and monetize that across both our semi-custom business as well as our discrete graphics and APU businesses.
Just one quick clarification, if I could squeeze it in. So if -- for any future console refreshes, though, you do have the ability to reset ASP trends? Or is it already pre-negotiated in your initial contracts?
I think if anybody were to do a different console or a new console, then that would be a new negotiation. But for the current generation consoles, those terms are locked.
Okay, great. Thanks a lot.
Jaguar Bajwa, Arete Research.
Thanks for taking the question. Just on the Polaris launch in midyear, you talked about attacking the mainstream segment of the GPU market. I just wonder when you look at potential share gains in the second half, do you expect that to come more from the discrete desktop side in the AIB channel or the notebook space where you have a relatively higher share, market share?
And given your ASPs in that space, roughly in the discrete desktop spaces, I think you've got about a third of the ASP of your competitor. Just wondering on the trend of that and how you see that over the second half of the year.
Yes, so we believe that we have a share gain opportunity in both mobile and desktop/AIB as we look at Polaris and how it will launch in the second half of the year. Relative to the ASP trends, I think that depends a bit on the mix of the business. So I think I will defer that to how things look.
But from a macro standpoint, we believe we can get a larger share -- a larger revenue share in discrete graphics. But we will certainly have to look at how the individual quarters shape up.
Okay. And then also, on the -- given your IP licensing deal in China, I am just wondering on the acceleration side for GPU, do you see opportunity there potentially with that deal?
And also just in a more general sense, we hear a lot about acceleration with GPU. Can you just talk about how you're approaching that acceleration in general? Will Polaris be suited to that? Or will we have to wait for Vega to come out later in the year? And how do you differentiate versus your competitors?
In terms of your first question on GPU acceleration, so the JV that we announced with THATIC is focused on microprocessor technologies only, so it does not cover graphics.
And then to your comment about graphics acceleration or just in general becoming more important and a growth driver, we would agree with that. I think going forward, you will see a bit more focus from us in that area. We have launched some new professional graphics products recently.
We will -- we've also introduced this new software initiative called GPUOpen that really focuses on building an open ecosystem around the graphics area, both in compute and gaming. So we do believe it is a good opportunity and it'll be an area that we will invest more.
Great, thanks very much.
Operator, that concludes today's call. If you would like to wrap it up, please. Thank you.
That concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your line at this time and have a wonderful day. We thank you for your participation today.