Thank you. And our first question comes from the line of Vijay Bhagavath with Deutsche Bank Securities. Your line is now open.
Hi, thanks, Chuck. Kelly, Marilyn. My question is around demand trends. A lot of clients are asking me this since the press release came out. Help us with any color you can in terms of end markets, product categories, product cycles -- anything and everything on demand trends looking into the rest of the year? Thanks.
Thanks, Vijay. So I'll provide some comments and ask Kelly for anything else that she'd like to add. So when you look at, in Q4, what we obviously saw was, after three quarters of growth in the Service Provider and emerging countries, we saw those turn negative, as I said. And the rest of the business was up 5%, from an orders perspective. We also highlighted the fact that enterprise was up 3%. A little more color on that is that every geography around the world experienced positive enterprise growth.
Commercial was up 5%. Every geography around the world experienced positive growth in commercial. And then in public sector, it was up 1% and I believe all except perhaps Europe were positive as well, in public sector. So outside of SP and emerging, we saw fairly consistent demand. And I think that pretty much summarizes it. Kelly, what other comments do you have?
No, I think you summarized it well.
Okay, Sam. Let's go ahead and tee up for the next question, please?
Thank you. Our next question is from Ittai Kidron with Oppenheimer. Your line is now open.
Hi, guys. Thanks for the question. Couple things from me. And Chuck, this is the same question I asked last quarter. Your UCS, your data center business, has now been stuck in range for seven quarters in a row. And I understand that HyperFlex has seen some traction, but how do we get that business back to growth again? What is the time line by which you think that could happen? And will you consider going after parts of the market that are maybe more margin-sensitive?
And then just another small question there. The Tetration solution you introduced, can you just remind us in what product category in the future that will be included, and maybe some color on first comments from customers?
Absolutely, Ittai, thank you very much. So on the UCS front, we talked about a couple things. There's an overall sort of macro demand issue in that space. I think the overall blade market has been somewhat benign. But we've also had -- we've also experienced, as we talked about, a transition to rack, and our teams have been working on subsequent innovation across both the blade and the rack business, as well as the introduction of the HyperFlex system.
So we have -- I believe the team has a real clear plan. They've got innovation priorities outlined across all of those platforms, and we'll be executing that over the next few quarters. Kelly and I actually reviewed this just a couple days ago. So I feel good about the leadership there. I feel good about their plan, and now it's about execution.
Kelly, any -- on the Tetration front, let me give you a little color, and then Kelly, you can talk about where we're going to report it. Tetration is -- we announced it in Q4. We're generally beginning orderability, I think, sometime around now. It is a combination of premise-based hardware with subscription software.
And so, we're just very much in the early days. We have taken a couple of orders from customers. I will tell you that the general feedback from our customers is that it solves a problem that they've had for a very long time, that nothing else has solved. So again, we've got that offer ready to go in a combination of premise-based and subscription-based solution, and it is just being turned off on an orderability perspective. Where will we report that?
Right now, since it is in the data center solution, it will be in data center switching. As we expand that portfolio across we can (inaudible).
We'll call it out.
Yes.
Thanks, Chuck and Kelly. Sam, we'll go ahead and take the next question, please.
Thank you. Our next question is from Simona Jankowski with Goldman Sachs & Company. Your line is now open.
Hi, thank you. I just had a clarification first, which is, what percent of the business right now is recurring software and subscription revenue? And then as far as my question, gross margins and operating margins were ahead of your target ranges, and that's in a quarter when gross margins are typically seasonally down. So just curious, Kelly and Chuck, about raising your target margin ranges over time? And just more broadly, how are you thinking about the tradeoff between margins and revenue growth?
Yes, so I'll start, and Chuck, you can jump in. But to your first question, the portion of our business that is recurring revenue is up to 28%, and that compares to 25% in Q4 of 2015. So we made really solid progress this year.
In terms of the margins, this has been a huge focus for us all quarter long, and it is really great to see that we actually had our margins -- gross margins and operating margins -- up year over year for us this year. It's part of what we're driving in our shift to software. Those businesses have great margins, and it's part of the overall transition. In terms of, when do we change our model or our guidance, I think that will come over time as we make bigger shifts at the Company level. But that is our goal, as we shift to more software that have those nice, great margins.
The only other comment I'd make is that when we look at our success relative to subscription and software businesses, we have the product-deferred revenue that's associated with software and subscriptions, that we said was up 33%. We also have another category of total contract value that we have not recognized revenue on yet that we will be billing customers on, on a monthly basis going forward.
We track both those numbers. The second one doesn't show up on our balance sheet yet. But if you look at those two combined, which is really reflective of our progress here, that number was actually up 43% over the same period a year ago, just to share one more data point there.
Next question, please?
And our next question comes from the line of Tal Liani with Banc of America Securities. Your line is now open.
Hi, guys. My questions are about the restructuring program. Two things. First, are you -- you say that you're doing it in order to increase investments in growth areas versus areas that are not growing. Are you anticipating further declining growth rates, or any issues beyond what we're seeing now in the legacy areas, that prompt this kind of program?
And second, when we talk about less lower-growth areas, these are your largest areas, so switches and routers. And the question is, how do you deal with -- how do you balance between the need to compete and the need to invest? And maybe you can give us some color on the restructuring and what you plan on doing? Thank you.
I'll make some initial comments and again pass it to Kelly. Tal, good questions. Primarily, we are looking at the areas of growth that we believe will grow faster than others. So it's more of a relative statement than it is an absolute statement. At the same time, we actually are working very diligently on bringing innovation to our core. We're focused on a tighter coupling of security into the core. We're focused on policy and orchestration and cloud-based management across the entire portfolio.
So there is a significant amount of innovation the teams are working on there over the next several quarters as well. So it's not that we're ignoring one in favor of another. We just want to make sure that our of investments are commensurate with the growth opportunity from a relative perspective. Kelly?
I think you said it well. We are investing in basically every business unit we have, right? So we're investing in the core and key areas. We're looking for those pockets of where the growth is, whether it's in core routing and switching or security and collaboration. So we're being very smart about where we're putting our money, and that's how we're looking at this.
We'll go ahead and take our next question, please.
Thank you. Our next question is from Steve Milunovich with UBS Securities. Your line is now open.
Thank you very much. Could you talk a bit more about the factors behind your first-quarter guidance? Revenue being flat is clearly below the recent growth rate, and the gross margin is also down a fair amount sequentially. So what do you attribute that to?
I'll give a couple of macro comments here. So we obviously, are calling out the weakness we saw from a demand perspective in Q4 relative to SP and emerging countries. We also -- obviously as we look forward, we're just uncertain how to model any improvement in those two, in particular, going forward.
And the other issue is that there is some impact from the transition in our business model. I'll give you a quick example. We restructured and drove new value in how we put together certain Cisco One Software packages for our customers. And in Q4, as an example, there was about $139 million that would have been recognized as revenue that, because of the way we have now structured those offers and the value the customers see in those, those are going to transition to ratable revenue recognition. So there is a slight impact from that as we look forward as well. And those are the key things that led us to our guide.
Yes, and just on -- the only thing to add to that -- again, we base it on what we see, and again, we did see the additional slowdown in SP and emerging. That makes us a bit cautious. On the margins, Steve, we're going to be driving as much as we can in those margins, and we'll be working that. But as of right now, this is what we see.
Next question, please?
Our next question comes from James Faucette with Morgan Stanley. Your line is now open.
Thank you very much. I just wanted a quick question. I think this ties into Service Provider. Routing was surprising to us, that it wasn't a little bit better, and I think that's probably attributable to Service Provider, and I want to make sure that's the case.
And I guess I'd like kind of your view -- it seems like with new products in that category, that maybe that, that category at some point becomes pretty spring-loaded, as at least we would expect the valuation units to be shipped in and pent-up demand to develop. But I want to know if we're thinking about that correctly, and kind of how we should think about the router segment going forward? Thanks.
Yes, James. You're correct in that over 50% of our routing business comes from Service Providers. So there's a direct correlation there. And I think if you look at the discussions that have are have taken place with our peers, you look at some of the analyst reports on SP CapEx, we actually saw exactly what the analysts have talked about. I saw one report that discussed double-digit declines outside of the United States, and maybe flat to slightly up inside the US, which is effectively what we saw from a demand perspective. So it was very much in line with that.
As far as what we see going forward, look, we certainly don't expect that these networks over time, that the traffic will decline. So I think it's a matter of timing. The video loads on the networks continue to increase. So we would think about it the same way you do, but we also know that in uncertain times, that customers tend to sweat assets as long as they possibly can.
Thanks, Chuck. Sam, we'll go ahead and take our next question, please.
Yes, our next question is from James Suva with Citigroup Global Markets. Your line is now open.
Thanks very much, I appreciate the opportunity. And congratulations, Chuck and Kelly, to your good results. My question is just one part and pretty simple. Regarding Brexit, you're one of the first major tech companies to report that have a full-month post of the Brexit event happening. Can you talk about, did that influence your visibility, your spending patterns or demand orders, or book-to-bill, or anything like that? Any push-outs, any hesitations?
Chuck, you talked many times about uncertain economic times we're in. I was wondering, has it been compounded by Brexit, or was that kind of built in and you actually didn't see much of an impact? Thank you very much.
Thanks, Jim. Well, I'll tell you, after the first year in this job, I know for a fact that every month there are new things that we face. And the good news is we tend to execute well and we deal with those. As it relates to -- first off, let me just say, in the EMEA business, the decline there was largely attributed to Service Providers. So I just want to make that clear. We would not suggest that the broad-based shift in the EMEA results was solely dependent upon Brexit.
What we saw from a Brexit perspective is exactly what you would expect. In the UK proper, we saw customers pause. We saw them just kind of slow a bit because they're uncertain. And we also saw the impact of the currency devaluation, which you would expect. But we remain very committed there. We think we'll work through this. But those are the real impacts.
Great, thanks, Chuck. Sam, let's go ahead and take the next question, please.
Yes, our next question is from Mark Moskowitz with Barclays. Your line is now open.
Yes, thank you, good afternoon. I wanted to ask a follow-up around the restructuring. Can you give us any sense, Chuck or Kelly, is there any benefit here from the early stages of the Ericsson relationship, allowing you to leverage that JV so that you can actually drive some of this restructuring? And does that imply there could be incremental restructuring down the road?
And then my question is around the cloud. We keep getting a lot of questions around what is Cisco's exposure to the cloud in terms of, can you give us any sense around the percentage of revenue, at least to private cloud or public cloud deployments that you're serving, from an infrastructure perspective? Thank you.
On the Ericsson front, I'll tell you that the partnership continues to move forward, and there was really no correlation or discussion of the Ericsson partnership as it related to the decision on restructuring. We think that, again, that the original benefits that we saw with that partnership, with their global scale for services, their OSS capabilities, their radio expertise, combined with our IT expertise in data center and security, and other of capabilities, as well as the enterprise and IoT, were really the drivers there. So we see that continuing.
As it relates to the cloud impact, I think when we look at sort of next-generation data center build-out in the private cloud, we look at our ACI portfolio, and we saw a $2.3 billion annualized business that grew 36%. So we feel like customers continue to move towards a hybrid cloud environment. The orchestration capability that we talked about with cloud center, which is from the CliQr acquisition, combined with the knowledge that we're going to be able to provide the customers through Tetration.
So think about Tetration providing analytics about what's going on, CliQr and ACI then being able to deploy policy and move workloads between public and private cloud. And that's what we think customers are going to look for, and we think we're in a pretty good spot there.
Sam, let's go ahead and take the next question, please?
Yes. Our next question is from Mitch Steves with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is now open.
Hi, guys, thanks for taking my question. So my first part is kind of on the product gross margin. So it looks like it was actually down sequentially in July, and I think that's primarily due to selling more switching and routing. So does that mean in October quarter, you think that the mix is going to shift more to legacy kind of routing and switching, versus the remaining, I guess, call it, advanced portfolio?
And then just one small one. What was the total acquisition revenue you guys got from all the acquisitions this quarter?
Yes, so I'll take that. So on the gross margins, we do have seasonality of when different mix of our products are bigger. For example, data center and services are bigger in Q2 and Q4, so you can see that normal seasonality in there.
As I said to the earlier question, I think from an overall perspective, we feel great about our gross margins. We are being smart about the tradeoff on top line and bottom line, and the teams continue to do great work in terms of driving productivity and costs out of the products that allow us to do that.
From a pricing perspective, our price ASP price erosion that we saw in Q4 was basically in line with what we saw in Q3 -- actually, 20 basis points better. So we're still in that same range; we're not seeing any change there. In terms of acquisition revenue, we don't typically disclose that, but I can tell you it was roughly less than a point.
Next question, please.
Thank you very much.
Yes.
And our next question is from Jess Lubert with Wells Fargo Securities. Your line is now open.
Hi, guys. I was hoping you could touch upon the activity you saw from some of your top cloud customers, to what degree you're continuing to see strength in that vertical? And then on the switching business, which saw a return to growth following several soft quarters, I was hoping you could help us understand to what extent ACI revenues are now greater than some of the legacy data center offerings?
And presuming the mix of legacy in the data center is now smaller than ACI, would you expect the switching business overall to grow moving forward? Or are there offsets that could cause that to vacillate going forward?
Thanks, Jess. On the web scale players, what we reported in the last couple of quarters was our top-10 web scale customers, and that business was up 2% this quarter. But it is a -- when you have 10 customers in sort of a reporting segment like that, it's highly dependent upon ordering cycles. So I'm not concerned about our relevance or anything relative to that.
On the switching business, I think it's important to understand a couple things. Number one, your question relative to the ACI portfolio, and has it exceeded the traditional portfolio, I think we -- the answer to that is, yes. And our orders there were -- I think grew in the data center switching business, were up mid single-digits.
Yes, in the revenue, on the revenue side, yes.
On the revenue side. And so that transition continues to go well, and we see customers that are investing in new cloud-ready architectures, are choosing the ACI platforms, which is showing in the results. When you look at our overall switching portfolio, it's just important to understand the math on what percentage of that business is still attributed to our campus portfolio.
And as we said, any time we have these macro -- these environments where customers have any level of uncertainty, that tends to be an area that they will continue to sweat, if they can. And our job over the next several quarters is to drive innovation in that portfolio, integrate security more tightly, and again, focus on orchestration policy and helping our customers lower their costs. And that's what we're going to try to do.
Thanks, Chuck. Next question, please?
Yes, our next question is from Jayson Noland with Robert Baird. Your line is now open.
Okay, great. I wanted to ask about long-term revenue growth. I think, Kelly, 3% to 6% has been discussed in the past, but with the shift to software and subscription, and service provider uncertainty, that seems like a stretch. And I'm not asking for specific guidance, but is there some direction that you would suggest for our long-term models?
Yes, you know, I think that's a great question, Jayson. If you go back to -- I think that was back in June of 2015, was our last financial analyst conference, it has changed quite a bit. Our transition has accelerated, that we've been accelerating. And I'd say the other major change from that long-term guidance was certainly our expectation of the data center business, and that market has changed.
So I'd say there is no long-term model change per se right now, but we're in the process of planning an analyst conference hopefully at the end of the calendar year here, and we'll update that. But I would say those are the two major assumption changes since we did that.
Thanks, Kelly. We have one more question, time for one more question.
Yes, and our last question comes from Simon Leopold with Raymond James. Your line is now open.
Great, thank you very much. I wanted to see if we could talk a little bit about longer term on the routing business, specifically. What you laid out sounds like very much the cyclical challenges facing your peers, as well as weak carrier CapEx. But if you could help us understand some of the longer-term themes around what's going on in routing, and how that sector may grow and your business may grow. And I'm pondering the implications around sort of SDN, as well as some of the architectural shifts of putting more of the burden into the optical space. Thank you.
Yes, Simon, thanks for the question. When I think about routing, I actually think about it in several different ways. Number one, you've got the SP traditional portfolio with Edge access and core, which we discussed earlier, which is largely just a consumption-driven cycle that we go through.
In the enterprise space, we have this transition to software-defined wide-area networking, which we're very well-positioned in right now with our IWAN portfolio. And we're actually working on a key differentiator for us, which I think is, as our teams have built out the ability to really drive the next-generation secure Edge. With our cloud security capabilities, the combination of dynamically provisioning those branch solutions, with the ability to have robust cloud security and Edge security, is going to be a real differentiator for us. So we see that being another opportunity for us going forward in the routing space.
And then finally, when we talk about the security and the security-driven refresh of our core, in Q4 we actually had a couple of customers -- I talked earlier in the opening comments about Stealthwatch Learning Networks. Which is effectively a machine-learning algorithm that runs at the edge of the network in the branch, and it actually does machine learning and a little bit of AI to determine normalcy for customers, and then flag for them when they see abnormal behavior going on. And we saw a couple of customers that actually made the decision to do a branch router refresh based on that capability, which we just launched in July.
So we believe that there's innovation that we can bring that will lead us to a refresh opportunity in the core, and we think that's largely going to be driven around security. And we're seeing some real early examples. We need to see how it plays out, but we're seeing some early examples there.
All right, Marilyn. Thank you very much. In wrapping up, I just want to summarize our priorities again as we think about the year ahead. First off, we're committed to executing against the financial model and against our priorities, regardless of the conditions of the market. And we're committed to making the decisions that are necessary to drive our growth, and also to fulfill the commitments and obligations that we made to our customers, partners, and shareholders.
We also are pleased with where we are on the transition to software and subscription models, and you can assume that we'll continue to accelerate that over the next year. We also -- I believe we'll drive a greater pace of innovation than you've seen in the last several years from Cisco. Our teams are very excited. There's a lot of things going on. So we're very committed to driving innovation.
And then finally, just to reiterate, our long-term strategy to create greater value for our customers and our shareholders, while ensuring that we're also making the decisions for Cisco's long-term success, will remain at the forefront. So I want to thank everyone for spending time with us today, and we'll look forward to talking to all of you soon. Marilyn?
Thanks, Chuck. Cisco's next quarterly call, which will reflect our FY17 first-quarter results, will be on Wednesday, November 16, 2016, at 1:30 PM Pacific Time, 4:30 PM Eastern Time. Again, I'd like to remind the audience that in light of Regulation FD, Cisco's policy is not to comment on its financial guidance during the quarter unless it is done through an explicit public disclosure.
We now plan to close the call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to contact any member of the Cisco Investor Relations department. And we thank you very much for joining today's call.
Thank you for participating on today's conference call. If you would like to listen to the call in its entirety, you may call 1-888-566-0452. For participants dialing from outside the US, please dial 1-203-369-3048. This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect at this time.