Our first question comes from the line of Philip Winslow with Credit Suisse.
Congrats on a great quarter. I just wanted to focus in on commercial cloud and Azure specifically. Commercial cloud, as you mentioned, the run rate was up $9.4 billion. That's up like $2 billion quarter to quarter, 70% year over year.  That's higher growth rate than even last quarter. Azure [similar, if not even] accelerating growth versus even last quarter.
So a question, Satya, and I'll follow up for Amy. Satya, when you look at the growth rates there in commercial cloud, and particularly Azure, you talk about new customer wins but also existing customers transitioning more workloads into Azure. I hope you can give us maybe some more color there as far as what you're seeing and how you think about the growth going forward there?
And then Amy, based on our calculations, it seems like Azure had a meaningful improvement in just the gross margin year over year. Wondering if you could help us with the two curves in that business, and where we are in Azure's gross margin lifecycle? Again, the fixed costs and the variable costs and how you are thinking about that? Thanks.
Thanks, Phil, for the question. The way we think about cloud is how I described it in my remarks, which is it's the combination of the work we are actually doing in the SaaS, PasS, IaaS, and also a hybrid cloud layer. Because we don't think, for example, of our servers as a distinct part. But it's in fact the edge of our cloud and we are building for that with things like Azure stack. We think what we have done here by bringing these things together as one architecture for distributed computing and how people will consume applications and build applications in the future, we speak to more of the real-world needs, I think, of an IT organization or a business organization that is transform through digital technology.
If you put yourself as a CIO of a multinational organization and you want to operate in multiple geographies with different regimes for data sovereignty and then you want to be able to take some workloads, move them all to the cloud. Some you want to be able to tier with the cloud, that's the kind of flexibility we provide. And we also see network effects between if you are using Office 365, you want to extend the data in Office 365 by building applications that join it with some other data inside of our data link service in Azure, obviously Azure becomes the natural choice for such application development. And we are increasingly seeing that. That's really our strategy. Our strategy is not to complete in these constituent parts independently with different competitors. It is to bring one architecture and really drive the value for our customers because of that.
Let me quickly cover, I think, your gross margin question. You are right, we did actually make significant progress in both Azure as well as Office 365. And then the mix of those, obviously impacts the overall commercial cloud gross margin. What's important, the dynamics are actually quite similar, even though the services are quite different. There are two fundamental components to gross margin improvement.
Number one is obviously scale efficiencies and where we are in that curve, which we are doing and continue to make consistent improvement in. The next, obviously, is the mix of premium services. Satya talked about some of the increasing mix of premium services in Azure. That has been encouraging, especially in existing customers over time and through adoption curves. And in Office 365, as you know, we continue to be excited by our premium mix in the commercial segment. So those two combinations each quarter impact it as well as the overall.
Thanks, Phil. We will move to the next question, please.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley.
Very nice quarter, guys. And thank you for taking the question. Satya, you mentioned both new and existing customers increasingly using the Azure cloud. I was hoping you could give us some color into what that looks like, specifically when an existing customers starts using Azure in terms of how does their overall spending get impacted and what happens to their spending for the more traditional server and tools? How does that get impacted as people use the public cloud utility more and more?
The thing that we notice is that with anyone who has moved to the cloud there is a real opportunity for us to expand to multiple workloads over time because it's a design win. It's like essentially an ISV win in the client server area where you could get someone to build on your core infrastructure. They build their first application. And it turns out that you have done that, you would want to look at our infrastructure for a second workload and third workload. So that is one side of what is happening with the expansion.
The other side of the expansion is what I also referenced, which is if you are an Office 365 customer you have data in Office 365.  You want to build applications that tap into that data, then you use Azure. That is the other piece. The EMS growth is also very much related to that, which is if you deploy Exchange online you have Azure A/D. And then the natural expansion from there is the full EMS suite with device management for all your mobile devices and also advanced threat protection and what have you. We see both those trends from an application workload development synergies, as well as infrastructure from identity management, device management work out.
Thanks, Keith.
Our next question comes from the line of Brent Thill with UBS.
Good afternoon. Amy, macro is on everyone's mind. I'm curious if you guys could comment a little bit about what you are seeing. I know it may be too early to see some of the weakness that others have seen. But how are you looking at the demand environment and how does that change your plans as you look towards the back half of the year? Does any assumptions change in your minds?
Thanks, Brent, for the question. The geos, I specifically called out, obviously are where we are the most impacted, and they are the bigger geos. Really I think the focus that we have here is how we can best execute no matter what the macro environment turns out to be. Focus on our own execution, focus on continuing to drive cloud services, focus on continuing to drive on annuity mix. Those movements actually -- and as we help customers transform, is really the best plan in the face of any uncertainty, which you are clearly asking me about. I tend to probably focus more on what we can control versus the external environment and how we can best react to that.
Our next question comes from Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you very much. I was just wondering, Satya, you mentioned, and I know there is been a lot of questions on Azure, but you mentioned strong growth in compute, and SQL usage on Azure being up, I think you said 5 times. I was wondering if you could give us your take on how you see the mix of Azure workloads? Is it right now more new workload growth and it's very little existing workloads moving over? I'm just trying to get a sense for how you see the wave cresting for new workloads versus existing workloads that can migrate over.
I'm also wondering if you see it helping (technical difficulties). You mentioned it is like a design win or an ISV win. I am wondering if you could share with us how this might be impacting your share versus, say, 1X or versus other types of infrastructure platforms. Thank you.
The thing, Heather, the move to the cloud has done for us is expanded the market opportunity that we have had more than ever before. In some sense if you compare it to the TAM of STB versus what we now describe as Intelligent Cloud, we are operating in a much bigger market. And that's because, first of all, the move to the cloud combines a whole bunch of different categories, as well as take something that you mentioned, which is Linux.  We now have the ability to take Linux workloads and run them first-class. And over 20%-plus of Azure is Linux workloads, which is sort of a growth opportunity we tapped into with the cloud which we didn't have previously.
And even take something like EMS, which is a service, you could say in the past, we participated with active directory, but we -- and some amount of system center. But now with the growth of actually mobile devices and SaaS applications our opportunity with EMS is much bigger than anything that we had in the client/server era. Clearly we are migrating some workloads. And structurally some of that helps us because we had that position in the client/server space. But when we look at what we're doing in the cloud it's mostly about attaching to one of the secular growth trajectories going forward, be it open source, Linux development, mobile use and SaaS applications. So those are things that we participate in which we didn't participate in the past.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Moerdler with Bernstein Research.
Thank you. Satya, Amy, congrats on the quarter. I've got for Satya and then a quick follow-up with Amy.  Satya, following up on the cloud discussion, recognizing that SaaS, PasS, infrastructure as a server hybrid, they're all related, but as Azure continues to grow fast and become a bigger part of the business, how should we think about the opportunities or the opportunity size for PasS versus infrastructure as a service?  PasS is much smaller industry-wide today, but is the opportunity is big, bigger? How should we think about that? And then a follow-up for Amy.
The opportunity I believe in both cases is high because it just comes in different forms. IaaS growth comes because people already have existing code that they want to move over. And then they start extending by writing more PasS because it is more efficient for them to write new code and new apps in PasS. So I think that depending what -- if you are bringing something over, your IaaS will be heavy first and then PasS will grow. If you are starting new you will have Pass, which is going to be the first thing you do. But then you'll always find the need to go integrate with something that was already existing, existing data, existing code in a virtual machine.
I, myself, in fact one of the things that Amy and I do is when we think about our CapEx, we think about all of these layers together. In fact, we amortize our CapEx across all of these. And we pay attention to margin and premium mix because what we are comfortable -- understand is customers, depending on where they start, how they start have different mix profiles. So it is the [all-up]. As long as we're growing our premium services attach and margins for those remain strong, we feel that the mix can be different and it's okay. And we really want to speak to the needs of the customers more than any product strategy goal we have.
Perfect, thank you. Amy, slightly different topic. Free cash flow grew 25% year on year, much faster than the other metrics. How should we think about this trend continuing?
That was impacted, Mark, in the prior year by some integration and restructuring charges on the cash flow statement.
So it's really a one-time event more than anything else?
Yes. Just always make sure you check the integration and restructuring in the prior year.
Perfect. Thank you. I appreciate it. Congrats.
Our next question comes from the line of Raimo Lenschow with Barclays Capital.
Thanks for taking my question, and congrats from me as well. Quick question for Satya. Now that Windows 10 is on 200 million devices, what do you see on the developer network? (Inaudible)[aims worth] you have a uniform platform for developers to go against PC, tablet, et cetera. What do you see in terms of them starting to embrace the platform and use the opportunity there? Thank you.
Thanks for the question. Yes, you're absolutely right. That was one of our biggest strategic objectives was to get active devices and with store integrated into the install base and then a user experience so that we can increase the success for developers. We're seeing good early signs.
In my open commentary I talked about both the increased [whiz-its] to the store and transactions as well as the fact that we are attracting new applications from developers like Netflix to Wall Street Journal, to others. As you can imagine our share is today in desktops, in emerging, in tablets, in two-in-one. And of course now with Xbox as well, which is got great attraction to gaming developers. So those are the natural places where you will see us gain more developers and gain more traction. We're big believers in a unified developer platform and a unified store. And then as Windows 10 monthly active devices increases and the store usage increases, we will see more and more developers take advantage of it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Walter Pritchard with Citi.
Just a numbers question for Amy. I noticed your long-term unearned revenue was up quite a bit. That is been a flattish trend, and it was paired with commercial bookings being much stronger, I think, than I was modeling. I'm wondering if you could help us understand what drove the unearned and how that contributed to those commercial bookings?
Sure. A couple things, Walter, which I know you recall. We do have a bit of lumpiness in our expirations. As I said on the call, this was a big expiration quarter for us. And so on occasion what that does, even with the negative currency impact on C&B, is have a bit of lumpiness over time. That being said, I want to point to the core which is that renewal rates were very good and a big quarter. There was very strong performance on that front, very strong performance in moving customers to annuity as well as to the cloud. So aside from a bit of the lumpiness that you do note, and we have from time to time, the execution in the quarter was very strong.
And then if I can just -- one other numbers question. It looked like in the Q you called out actually Windows server declining as an offset to Intelligent Cloud growth. I'm wondering, we haven't seen that comment in the Q before. Was there something, sort of one-off driving that, or any further detail on that?
The way I would think about that one, Walter, is in general our premium or enterprise workloads across Windows, SQL, system center, et cetera grew double digits. Some of that weakness, frankly, is in the non-annuity and very transactional business, which happened to impact Windows server a bit more than other workloads. That is where macro pressure on occasion shows itself first, is in some of that non-annuity lumpiness. So that's the nature of that comment.
Great, thank you.
Our next question comes from the line Karl Keirstead with Deutsche Bank.
Amy, relative to your Q2 guide, the upside surprise really came in the personal computing business. And at least relative to our third-quarter estimates, it's again the personal computing guidance that beat. I'm wondering if you could repeat the key factors that are contributing to the outperformance in that pretty important business? Thank you.
Sure, Karl. In Q2, let me talk about two key ones. Number one is really the device launches. We actually launched a very broad portfolio of devices into the quarter with Surface Pro 4, Surface Book, Band 2, and the Lumia 950 and 950XL. Between all of those hardware products as well as our gaming performance, another hardware component in quarter, we did a little better than we had expected in our launches. Now, when you launch mid-quarter there's always some timing aspect to that. But I feel very good about the execution of those and that is a meaningful component of that outperformance.
The second one, which I talked about, is OEM Pro. We did a little better in the quarter than I expected, but inventory levels are a little higher. I expect to work through that in Q3. And that was a couple of points of impact, for example, on OEM Pro in quarter.
Okay, great. Amy, for the third quarter your guide for that business is also pretty good. Is that due to some of these similar factors or are there one or two others that are driving the, what appears to be appears to be, pretty solid 3Q performance in that unit as well?
It's similar drivers. In that segment there is also some topics I tend to not get asked about in Q&A.  Let me take the opportunity to talk about them.  Which is one, our search performance continues to be very good. Frankly, our display business has been quite good. If you go beyond that, I feel good about our gaming business sequentially. I feel good about the hardware, especially the Surface performance, as we launch into more geos. If you think about all those components, which actually were very similar to Q2 in terms of their strength, you see them again in Q3. So I'm not sure there's anything, quote-unquote, new, Karl, I would say other than that bit of mix between OEM Pro a little bit pulled into Q2 versus Q3.
Terrific color. Thank you, Amy.
Our next question comes from the line of Kash Rangan with Bank of America.
Thank you very much. Congrats on the quarter. I was curious to get your thoughts, Satya, on the Windows 10 upgrade cycle in the enterprise and also the consumer market, particularly after you anniversary the free offer for Windows 10. And secondly and finally, thoughts on Surface? It's off to a great start with the latest model. Could that play a more important role in the corporate computing landscape? Thank you. That's it for me.
Thanks, Kash, for the question. As far as the upgrade momentum, the fact that we crossed 200 million active devices, we feel very, very good about that. And the pilots, the most -- the place which in the second half is going to be a huge focus for us is the enterprise deployment. And that is where I think there's real excitement because of some of the core capabilities of Windows 10 when it comes to security, manageability. That I think is going to create great value for enterprises, and that's showing up in all the pilots and the accelerant. I've never seen a Windows in the enterprise with this level of accelerated deployment plans. So we obviously need to do a great job in continuing to push that and we are focused on it.
As far as Surface, Surface is playing a increasing role for us in both consumer as well as in the enterprise market. And also, we created a new category of two-in-ones where even our OEMs are finding success, which was one of our strategic objectives of doing the Surface. Overall, we do think that this tablets that can replace your laptop is ideally suited for productivity needs, which means it's great for your personal use as well as your use inside of the enterprise. And we continue to see good growth.
I would just add one thing, is that we've actually announced a number of important partners to help us take the Surface portfolio into commercial customers. And I think we will expect to see progress on that over the course of the year.
If I could, your excitement is pretty palpable.  What could be driving that 140% increase in adoption relative to Windows 7?  We all thought XP to 7 was a major transition, but it looks like there is another big transition happening here.
I think there two aspects of it. We have a good operating system release for the core desktop user. And second, I believe is that we also expand out into new usage patterns. If you look at even the thing that we're seeing is in terms of engagement with the browser, or things like Xbox Live, with the store or new device categories like the two-in-one; all I think make it much more possible for users to engage with Windows in more mobile formats and in more productivity scenarios. So I think it's the combination of all of that. But it starts with having a good product [truth], which Windows 10 does deliver on.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross MacMillan with RBC Capital Markets.
Satya, I had a question on commercial Office 365. I don't know if you gave us the number, but I think the last couple of quarters you've talked about monthly active users. And I'm curious if you have an update on that number. And then I also was curious about thoughts around ARPU because you introduced the E5 SKU in December. Where are we on the path of penetration, if you will, with the higher-value SKUs and the ability to see price list across the base over time? Thanks.
Yes, [Amy, maybe you can add]. That's right. Last time we talked about the 60 million monthly active users for Office 365, and that continues to grow. In fact there is always -- I think we also talked about how we get licenses sold and then all subscriptions sold.  And then there is deployment. And there's always lumpiness as well as increased deployment that happens once the users migrate. And we'll continue to track that and we'll continue to disclose those numbers as they come along. But I feel very, very good in the growth of that. The best proxy for you, really, beyond any numbers we talk about in terms of monthly active is our capital. Because if you look at what we do is we spend our capital only to really fuel the growth, or to service the growth of usage across Office 365 and Azure, and you see that increasing.
In terms of the margin profile, the entire story of having the E3 mix first to be high and now E5, that is the thing that Amy talked about, which is we now have good premium tier value in all of our products. In Office 365 that is most evident with E3 and now E5. Even in Azure we have things like EMS, we have our data services, even our developer services. I think both of our cloud products, and the major cloud products, have these premium tiers that the mix shift to those, or the addition of those is something that we are focused on and we see in our result.
That's right. I would just add that we did see that premium mix go up in Office 365 on the commercial side, as you were noting. Really, E5 only been in market for the last month of the quarter. We are excited about the number of customers that are trying it and that all the value it offers. But I would expect that to be a longer-term evolution as opposed to in Q2.
Could I just ask a quick follow-up, Amy?  That was great. Just on Windows, just so we all calibrate correctly. You've had this benefit from the RPL [columns] from last year. Should we think about Windows really now beginning to trend in line with PC units, or can there still be some variability around that? Thanks.
In my guidance comments I talked a little bit about that. On the Pro side, as I mentioned, we will have a couple point impact that will make a difference between that on the Pro side. And I would expect, I think we actually even talked about that last quarter, that the RPL delta which we've seen in Q1 and Q2 would go away in Q3 and Q4. And it would trend much more similarly to the overall consumer PC market.
Operator, we'll have time for one last question, please.
Our last question will come from the line of Ed Maguire with CLSA.
Good afternoon. I wanted to ask if you have been able to quantify some of the uplift since you've been opening up Office to different platforms like iOS and Android, and now with the recent alliance with Red Hat opening a lot of opportunity to Linux developers? Have you been able to quantify how much uplift you've gotten? And how do you see this impacting your broader market opportunity?
Let me speak to it in generic terms, because I don't think we have quantified it as narrowly perhaps just to address those specific moves we made. But overall the way we have thought about it is we want to make sure the Office subscription, both to consumers as well as to enterprise subscribers, is valuable across all their devices because it speaks to the vision that we have, which is the cloud is what enables the mobility of the human experience across all of the devices in your life. Because increasingly there will be more devices and we want to make sure that we are adding value. And if we add value in that context you would be more inclined to retain or purchase the Office subscription. That is been our goal, and that's working well.  And it is sort of shows up in our all-up growth.
Similarly with Azure, we're making sure that as people are tapping into the cloud and moving to the cloud we can get all workloads to be as first-class on Azure. So that is why we have done the deals with Red Hat. We even did previously deals with Oracle. So Azure is a complete open platform where of course you can run all the Windows workloads, dot-net workloads.  But we're increasingly seeing the open source workloads, the Linux workloads, the Oracle workloads, the SAPs and what have you. And more interestingly, a mix of all of them, because the enterprise is heterogeneous. It has been heterogeneous. We participated only in a portion of it. Whereas with Azure we can participate as the total open platform. And that is how we thought about it and that is what we are executing on.
Thanks Ed. And thanks everybody.
That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's call. We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming months at various investor conferences. For those unable to attend in person, these events will be webcast and you can follow the comments at microsoft.com/investor. Please contact us if you need any additional details. And thank you again for joining us today.
Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.