Our first questioner comes from Vivek Arya from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Brian, I'm curious on the data center growth. The growth rate is now below 6% in Q1. Are you still committed to the high single-digit growth rate for this year? What will drive it? Is it just some pause ahead of the broader launch of the Skylake servers? If you could just give us some more color about why the growth rate is below trend right now and what will help it get back to trend later in the year and over the next few years.
Sure, Vivek. So the simple answer is, absolutely, we're still committed to the high single-digit growth for the year. If you take a look at it, as Bob and I both mentioned in the call, when you take a look at Q1 comparatives, one, Q1 of last year was 14 weeks. This year, it's a normal 13 weeks. So you add that 1 extra week, that's a couple of percent that you're competing against on a year-over-year basis. Secondly, Q1 tends to be our lowest quarter in general, if you just look at our seasonality, in the year for overall revenue and output and growth in that business, in the data center business. And so as we look out and we see, as you said, the ramp of Skylake in the second half, as we see the normal seasonality, we are absolutely committed to that high single-digit growth rate for the rest of the year.
That's helpful. And as my follow-up, the very rich mix in PCs, ASPs were up very strongly, how sustainable is that? And are you seeing any effect of competition from AMD's product launches?
Sure, I'll start. Bob may want to jump in. Each quarter, we come in here and say we're a little concerned about the sustainability of those high ASPs, and we continue to have that. So we always forecast, if you take a look at the -- what we forecasted for the remainder of the year, we've forecasted a slight decline in ASPs as we move through the year. Now that said, we are continuing to improve our road map. We're continuing to pull in products. And the demand for those high-end, high-performance products from 2 in 1s, gaming, high-end workstations continues to grow faster than we are even able to project. So right now, we've forecasted a slight decline through the rest of the year. And we -- but we had strong demand for it in Q1. And I -- and we really believe that's a function of our products and our road map. From a competition standpoint, we're not seeing anything unusual right now as far as -- there's always some level of competition in this market, but -- and I'd tell you, for Q1 and our forecast for Q2, we're not seeing anything out of the ordinary from what we normally see.
Yes. The only thing I would add, Brian, is the -- in the -- with the ASPs being a little bit stronger than we expected in the first quarter, as we mentioned, we expect full year revenue to be up $0.5 billion versus where we were 90 days ago. And I would say one of the contributors to that is kind of how we saw ASP trend in the first quarter of the year.
And our next question comes from C.J. Muse from Evercore.
I guess, first question, in terms your targeted 30% OpEx ratio by 2020, would love to hear what kind of revenue assumptions you're making as part of hitting that.
Sure. So I'll start. First, I thought it would be good to give you a little background, right, why we do we come out and commit this now and kind of what's our thinking behind this. And part of it is we had good progress, brought down spending as a percent of revenue about 1% for 2016. We're a quarter in, and we're seeing good progress in our efforts along 2017 of taking it down another -- slightly more than 1% as we look at this year. And so we just really took a look at do we think we can maintain that progress and continue to drive efficiencies while driving growth. The growth we've expected is what we talked about in the analyst meeting back in February, which is that mid-single-digit type of growth for the overall company. And that's kind of where we're at from a growth perspective. And then the cost reduction and the efficiencies are driving the rest of it.
Yes. And I would just say that the -- we kind of -- our focus is on growing the earnings performance for the company in the short, medium and long term. And what we laid out at Analyst Day, as Brian indicated, was, over the next 3 years, low single-digit growth, operating income growing faster than revenue and EPS growing faster than operating income. And that's the -- against that, we're trying to obviously make revenue grow faster, continue to manage the efficiency in which we operate the company and drive strong earnings growth performance over the short, medium and long term. So the 30% target is consistent with kind of the 3-year plan, and we know that there's opportunities for us to be more efficient as we go forward.
That's very helpful. I guess, as my follow-up, was hoping to take a look at memory and here, would love to hear from you as to how we should think about layering in depreciation from Dalian this year, next and when you would expect to turn a profit on the operating margin line.
Yes. On the depreciation, we kind of implied in our guidance really no change on a depreciation through course of the year. And what that assumes is roughly $2.5 billion additional CapEx from memory in the year. In terms of profitability, for this year, when we talked to you at Analyst Day, Rob kind of laid out a plan where the Core 3D NAND would be profitable in the second half of the year, but our losses for the business would still be roughly in line with where we were in 2016. And that was a function of really 3 things: good performance on 3D NAND, continuing to ramp Dalian and continuing to invest in our Optane product or 3D XPoint. So those dynamics have us breaking even for the core business in the second half of the year, and we said that near the end of 2018, as a whole, the memory business would be profitable. And to the first quarter, growth was stronger than we expected, and performance out of our fab was even better than we expected.
Our next question comes from Blayne Curtis from Barclays.
I just wanted to go back to the DCG growth and into your outlook in June, flat or slight growth overall, is your expectation the DCG would be similar to that? And then as you look out the whole year, you talked about cloud growth. I know tough compares with 18%. Just curious, you're -- since you've been shipping early to these customers, what would be the time frame that you would actually see some benefit from Skylake?
Sure. So I'm not exactly sure I completely understood your slight growth. What we said is we're -- for DCG as a business, we're in the high single-digits growth rate. So we're absolutely committing to that. We talked about the 6% in Q1 and how, as we go through the year, we'll continue to grow. From the standpoint we've been sampling Skylake to the cloud guys now for some period of time, in fact, backed into latter half of last year, but you really don't see the ramp of Skylake in volume at any of the customers, whether it be the cloud guys or the rest of the enterprise and networking and all until the second half. That's really when the volume kicks in on the server side. And that's absolutely what we had forecasted, and there's no change in that forecast whatsoever.
And then maybe if I could just ask, I know you don't break it out anymore but just your view on your modem product this year and next. And if you could also maybe opine about your foundry strategy and opportunities there.
Sure. I can start with the modem, and Bob can talk about -- I'm not going to break it out financially. Bob can talk about -- jump on top of this. But for us, on our modem, it continues to gain momentum. We've talked about our one large customer, but we continue to get other interest in it. We are on schedule to bring our next-generation modem into production and customer qualifications this year. And really, looking out over time, we have the next several series of modems over the next few years from an LTE perspective, and then we're already working on and believe we're leading, if you looked at our output from MWC back in February as well, on the 5G side, which is both at the modem and back through the base station. And that, we believe, is really the differential that we're able to provide in the communication space, is in a space like 5G where the modem and the base station and backhaul is so integrated and so important, we're able to provide that end-to-end solution. From a foundry perspective, we continue to talk to several large customers, and as we're able to, we'll talk about volumes and launching of new products. But for right now, we're just saying we're continuing to invest and grow that business.
Yes. And the only thing that I would add is the strong CCG revenue growth of 6% in the quarter. As you'll remember, because our first launch client really didn't ramp until the second half of last year, the first half revenue growth for CCG will -- particularly because of modem, will have a relatively easy comp. So that's a contributor to growth in the first half. And as Brian said, we -- the comps get much tougher in the second half because our one client launched in the second half last year. But given the products we have, we feel relatively good about where we are.
Our next question comes from Stacy Rasgon from Bernstein.
First, I wanted to ask again about this 30% spending target. You guys just had an Analyst Day like 2 months ago. It seems like something that probably should have been talked about then. So what's changed in the last 2 months that means you need to roll the target out on today's call? And how should I try to reconcile that target with some of your other commentary at the Analyst Day where you were fairly gung ho about the need to invest to fund growth?
So I'll start, Stacy. I think you have to take a look at where we're at. You're kind of asking a couple of questions. So first, from the growth standpoint, our position about investing and continuing to really drive growth is absolutely still just as strong as it was back in February at the Analyst Day. And I'd tell you, Q1 is a great example of that with year-over-year growth, another record quarter coming off a record year. And raising the year and forecasting another record year. So I feel very good about the investments we've made, both short term, medium term and long term, to drive that growth. That said, Bob and I have both been looking at now how do we do that and also at the same time, become more and more efficient. And what we've looked at now is that our performance and becoming more efficient in 2016 and taking about 1% out of our spending as a percent of revenue was very successful. We understand how we did that. As we looked at our first quarter performance and what we believe we can take out for the rest of 2017 is another percent of spending as a percent of revenue, slightly more actually. And then I think one of the things that Bob's really brought in as the CFO is new ways of thinking and new looks at how to continue that trend. And so taking 1% a year or so out of our spending as a percent of revenue is something we think we can go and accomplish while driving that growth. And that is the effort that we've spent over the last couple months really digging into those details. And that's why we felt like it was important we came out now and really said, yes, we are committing to that. We understand the details behind it. And we've got a history now that tells us we can say it with confidence.
Got it. For my follow-up, I'd like to ask about DCG margins. So they were 35% this quarter. It doesn't sound like there was anything structural like the warranty charge that hit last quarter. This sounds like the drivers around allocation and everything else we've discussed. But it's still quite a bit lower than I think most would have expected. How should we think about that margin profile trending through the year as the Skylake parts ramp? And do you think, for the full year, you'll actually be within the data center margin targets that you provided at the Analyst Day?
Yes, I would -- Stacy, we kind of provided a long-term outlook of 40% to 45% operating margin for DCG. Our expectations for this year were for growth, as Brian indicated earlier, high single digits and at the lower end of that range, of the 40% to 45%. In the first quarter, just to be clear, the 9-point drop in margin, 7 points of that is attributed to the fact that DCG is a bigger business, and we've indicated it will be first on 7-nanometer and a fast follow on 10-nanometer. As a result, it gets a bigger share of our technology development and our SG&A allocation. So 7 points of the 9 decline are simply a result of how we allocate costs to the business segments. I think in terms of going through the course of the year, the things that are going to change, as Brian indicated, we got strong product offering coming out in the second half of the year. We expect ASPs to improve as we go throughout the year. As you know, the first quarter is always the lower end of margin seasonality -- from a seasonal perspective. And we expect product costs to improve as we continue the transition from 22- to 14-nanometer. So it's in line with our long-term expectations, no change; our outlook for 2017, no change. The biggest fundamental driver to margin performance is simply the success of the data center business in terms of growing, in terms of being a bigger chunk of the overall business, in terms of being a beneficiary of leading-edge technology that bears 7 points impact because of the higher burden of our allocations on the business. So we feel good on where we are for the quarter and where we're positioned for the full year.
But those allocation charges aren't going to go away anytime soon. It sounds like they're going to hang around for a while if you're talking about 10 and the 7-nanometer.
Yes, that's true and that's reflected in our 40% to 45% and our improvement throughout the course of the year.
Our next question comes from John Pitzer from Crédit Suisse.
Bob, maybe just a follow-on to Stacy's question, just some clarification around the allocation charges. The 7 points in March, does that represent a peak? Or do we run into a situation where as absolute costs for 7 and 10 go up throughout the year, you could see op margins in DCG continue to be down just because the percent doesn't change but the dollars are going up?
Yes. I mean, our expectation is the operating margins for DCG will improve by quarter throughout the year. Again, it'll be a function of the normal seasonality of the profitability of the business. It will still bear a significant chunk of our tech development and SG&A costs. But you may remember that our development costs during the course of the year, as we indicated, I think maybe last couple quarters, that comes down from first half to second half. So as that cost comes down, all of our businesses will benefit from lower costs. And then the third thing, higher -- yes, the real fundamentals of the business are higher ASPs with good product with an outstanding performance and getting better and better yields on our 14-nanometer product going through the fab will be benefits to the profitability of the business. The lowest point Q1 expectations, it'll grow each quarter throughout the year, and we would expect full year operating margins, despite higher absorption, higher burden from our indirect costs, at roughly 40% for the year.
And that clarification's helpful. And then, Brian, as my follow-up, one of the strengths of your model is just the free cash flow that you can generate, which enables you to reinvest organically back in the business. And you're clearly doing it this year on the CapEx front with CapEx up over 20% year-over-year. I guess what I'm trying to understand is should we be thinking of CapEx this year as sort of the new norm with rising capital intensity, investments in the memory business, maybe optionality around foundry? Or is the $12 billion this year sort of something that we should think about as being an above trend or particularly high spending year? Any color on that would be helpful.
Sure, John. I'd tell you that the increase in CapEx that you're seeing this year is something that we kind of see as unique. But my guess is that we'll have to continue it for maybe 1 year more or so as we continue to build out that memory factory. But look, if you take a long-term view, I don't expect us to run these kinds of CapEx levels. I -- we'll always make good investments. So in a place like this where we think we have differential technology like 3D NAND and our Optane/3D XPoint, I'm going to look for ways to invest that have a positive NPV. But from this current view, we probably have another year and then probably go back down to what we'd consider a more normal rate.
Our next question comes from David Wong from Wells Fargo.
Can you give us some idea within data center of what revenues you're currently seeing from Xeon Phi? And also, you mentioned acceleration services at Alibaba. Can you fill us in on any other key customers adopting Xeon Phi, FPGAs or any of your other accelerators?
Sure. So we don't break out revenue on specific products like Phi, but Xeon Phi does continue to ramp and grow from a product standpoint. We have some additional products that we'll launch in the second half of this year around Xeon Phi from Knights Mill. And from an FPGA or other accelerators, we continue to get several of the large cloud providers, networking providers who are continuing to use our FPGAs. But again, we don't break out on a -- by customer standpoint. But we still are committed to our 6% roughly growth on the PSG business this year. Q1 was down just because of some unique -- there was some extra buying in the latter half of last year around some cloud. And the networking guys are typically down in the first quarter. So it hit its forecast, but it's down year-over-year. We think we'll recover that as we go through the rest of the year from an FPGA. And then as we go out through the second half of this year, the first of the products comes out in silicon from our Nirvana acquisition, which is another form of AI acceleration. We'll get that first silicon. We'll start to work with customers, and you'll see that come in 2018 as an additional accelerator adding to our full AI portfolio.
Our next question comes from Timothy Arcuri from Cowen and Company.
I just wanted to clarify your answer to John's question. So in terms of the $300 million year-over-year burden on DCG operating margin that's due to the cost allocation, is that sort of a fixed number going forward? Or does that absolute number get better through the year?
The -- there's 2 dynamics on our total pool of indirect costs that are going on for the company. One is our SG&A indirect costs are coming down. Brian referred to that earlier about the progress we made on direct spending overall coming down another 1 point plus during the course of the year. And second, our R&D costs, particularly as it relates to Moore's Law for 10-nanometer and 7-nanometer, goes up a little bit. So during the course of the year, our overall costs will be roughly flat that we'll be allocating to the businesses. And DCG will get a larger portion of that than it has historically, roughly impacting the business by 7 points because of its bigger size and because of the decision to have it be a beneficiary of Moore's Law sooner than it has historically.
And then as a follow-up, I -- so I just wanted to clarify. So the NSG, so you're expecting to still lose money into the first half of next year. And is that what you're saying? Or are you saying that for the entirety of the year next year you'll be profitable?
So separate out again and remember we're making the large investments in Dalian. So from a pure 3D NAND perspective, we said it goes breakeven and beyond in the latter half of this year. So for next year, our standard NAND business will be profitable. 3D XPoint plus the Optane product is additional investments we're making. We said that that's in the second half of next year it goes to breakeven. And the overall business does as well. We haven't gotten any more granular than that for right now.
And our next question will come from Ross Seymore from Deutsche Bank.
Wanted to ask the first one on the OpEx side of things, and I applaud the 30% target. It's good to see that commitment. But I wanted to focus a little bit more in the near term. In the first quarter, it was about $100 million above what you had guided. In the second quarter, it's a bit above what I expected, too, especially given McAfee. So could you give us a little color on why it was a little bit higher in the first quarter and where we are in the restructuring benefits and the McAfee benefits? If you can do anything to size either of those in the near term, that will be helpful.
Yes. I think first quarter, a little bit over, I'd characterize it primarily in the round. I think for first half, we're basically implying $10.6 billion of OpEx, and we're committed to our $20.5 billion for the first -- sorry, for the full year. So $10.6 billion in first half drops to $9.9 billion in the second half, and there's really 2 primary drivers to that. One is, as you alluded, the exit of McAfee will be roughly $300 million out from the first half run rate. And then secondly, just the completion of our previously announced restructuring programs will continue to bear fruit on lower OpEx in the second half of the year. So first half, $10.6 billion; second half, $9.9 billion; McAfee exit, continued execution and feel good about full year of $20.5 billion.
And just a reminder, that $20.5 billion takes another roughly 1%, slightly more, out of our spending as a percent of revenue. So that's all baked in.
I guess my follow-up then switches to the gross margin side of things. It's staying solid, and I might be at the risk of a rounding error in this question as well. But considering that you raised your revenues and ASPs were a big portion of that, usually that's a pretty good follow-through. So the fact that you're keeping the gross margin guide for the year flat at 63%, are there any incremental offsets to the goodness that the revenue and the ASPs would generate? Or is it in fact just rounding?
I don't know if it's rounding or not. I'd say $0.5 billion of revenue upside at kind of roughly gross margin dynamics of the business will fall through an additional $0.05 of EPS. So we feel great about that. I think the dynamics of more the business is in the second half. ASPs will improve for data center. As Brian alluded earlier, we've assumed that ASPs will decline a little for the client business and the fast growth of memory and modem will have a negative mix impact on gross margin. So I think when we take that all together through the year, we felt a fairly consistent 63% with all those puts and takes throughout through the course of the year. And Q1 was where we expected; Q2, consistent with Q1 and full year.
And our final question comes from Kevin Cassidy from Stifel.
Just on the capacity that you're building in Dalian, can you say what percentage increase you're getting? Or is it directly correlated to the revenue growth that you're seeing in the memory group?
Percentage. So a, yes, the growth in the memory business that goes through the rest of this year is largely driven by the ramp of the Dalian factory along with some assumptions around strong ASPs as demand continues to outpace supply the market in general. And so if you take a look from here on, in fact, 2017 by then, as we go out into 2018 and beyond, Dalian will continue to be the driver of growth of that business.
I guess another way to phrase the question is what's the bit growth? Most other memory companies give a projection of what their bit growth is.
Yes. I don't think we've actually ever given a bit growth. So that's not a public number. We can take a look at that for next quarter as to whether we want to start adding that to our normal distribution. But what we've always talked about is growth of the business from a profit or revenue standpoint and overall growth, partly because, remember, more and more of that business will become things like 3D XPoint/Optane, and bits will be a little bit different there, right? Not all bits are going to be created equal. That's a very differentiating technology. It's really got performance of DRAM-like devices with NAND non-volatility and pricing in between. And so those bits are a bit different than, say, typical NAND bits, and I wouldn't want to just lump those all into a standard number. So we need to think about how we'd really go and present this to you if you want to think about it from a bit standpoint. And that -- it's around 5% of the business this year, but as you go out into next year and beyond, it becomes a larger and larger percentage as we see more and more products, especially in the data centers, use the Optane technology.
Right. And maybe if I could ask that question, too, of Optane. When would it transfer to China?
We haven't talked about a transfer date to China yet. That hasn't been made public right now. Right now, Dalian is 3D NAND.
Thanks, Kevin, and thank you all for joining us. Crystal, please go ahead and wrap up the call.
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program. You may all disconnect. Everyone, have a wonderful day.