I guess, Ernie, my first question is just around your CapEx number, $7.5 billion. That doesn't surprise me as much as your sort of guidance around bit growth for DRAM and NAND for the fiscal year just given the significant jump in CapEx. I'm wondering if you can just help me understand, to what extent is this being driven by a back-end-loaded expectation around CapEx? And how do we think about kind of the bit growth exiting next fiscal year? And I guess, at what point do you think you'd begin to start to outgrow bits relative to the industry for both DRAM and NAND?
Yes, so multipart question. Let me try and break it down in an easily understandable way. First, as you pointed out, there is a time lag between the time CapEx is invested and the time that the bit growth is realized. And certainly, if you look at what we did in 2017, that was actually a function of the investments that we made in 2016. And it's also important to remember that the bit growth that we were able to realize from the Inotera investments were not part of Micron's CapEx plan then. So if you add Micron's spend and Inotera's spend, you're probably in the upper $6 billion range. And so that's a good point of comparison as we now look at 2018. So in 2018, we would expect the majority of the bits that are the results of the CapEx to come on towards the latter part of the fiscal year. And you heard Sanjay in his prepared remarks say that we would be at bit crossover on an output basis for our 64-layer NAND around the second or third fiscal quarter of the year. But it was going to be the exit part of the calendar year for DRAM before we hit bit output crossover on 1X. So that gives you some sense of the timing and the impacts of timing on those investments. I would also tell you that our objective over a multiyear period is to grow at about industry levels. And certainly, we think this investment plan, over the course of a multi year horizon, will allow us to do that, obviously being above in 2017 fiscal, as we've just reported, DRAM at the low end, a little above on NAND. So I think looking at snapshot comparisons across our fiscal year is interesting, but really important is the statement that we intend to grow, aligned with industry over the course of these multiyear periods. And I think that's probably the best broad perspective I can provide. Happy to address any specific question.
And of course, our focus also would be on high-value solutions so that our revenue share outperforms our bit share.
That's helpful, guys. And then Sanjay, this is my follow-on question. I think clearly, the most significant concern in the investment community is the sustainability of the current environment. So I'd love to kind of get your thoughts on sustainability. And I guess, specifically, to what extent in an environment like this can you move the business from more sort of a transactional, hand-to-mouth business to something that might have more backlog and visibility with your customers, especially as you try to move the mix towards more higher value end solutions?
In terms of the market environment, we are certainly excited about the demand requirements for DRAM as well as for NAND. As I mentioned in my prepared remarks, I mean, a big growth driver for DRAM certainly that's outpacing the average growth of the industry is in the area of server and cloud. And here, we are making great penetration with the hyperscale customers in terms of driving the growth of their DRAM business. So we remain very bullish about the DRAM market environment. Through the 2017, we think it will be undersupplied. And given the demand trends, we think we'll have healthy demand-supply balance in DRAM throughout 2018 time frame as well. And in terms of NAND, it is well known that average capacities are increasing certainly in mobile devices, but even more importantly, SSDs are displacing HDDs at a rapid pace, with attach rate continuing to be projected to be going up over the course of next several quarters. And of course, there is a strong value proposition for SSDs in the cloud and hyperscale data center environment as well, given all the trends of artificial intelligence, machine learning, all of this is driving big data analytics. So all these trends related to artificial intelligence, big growth in data, customers wanting to offer differentiated value to their end customers. All of this is driving need for memory and storage solutions. And overall, we remain pretty bullish about the demand trends. I mean, if you look at DRAM as well as NAND, even in autonomous vehicles, the demand requirements for flash, I mean, data is being generated -- so much data is being generated by autonomous vehicles that it requires fast processing both within the vehicle as well as on the cloud. So I think demand trends for the foreseeable future continue to be strong, and that bodes well for our industry. In terms of your question regarding customers and some of the customers wanting to engage in longer-term requirements, yes, that is absolutely happening, and we do consider that based on various customers. I mean, it depends on the nature of the customer's requirements. We cannot get into the details of that here in this call. But certainly, our business includes customers that are more transactional in nature, that have business more on a monthly transaction basis, some that are more on a quarterly basis, and certainly, certain customers that are also involved in longer-term trends. I think customers are just seeing the increasing value of memory and storage. I mean, this -- DRAM and flash is becoming strategic to our customers. And our customers are seeing Micron as being uniquely positioned with having a strong portfolio of DRAM as well as flash and being the only company in the western hemisphere with those capabilities. And that is definitely making us an attractive and valued partner to our customers.
And our next question comes from the line of Rajvindra Gill of Needham & Company.
Question on the NAND bit growth. So the bit growth is increasing to 50% from kind of the high-30s this year. A lot of this, obviously being driven by 3D NAND. Wanted to talk about in terms of how you're seeing the supply-demand balance going into next year and the NAND environment and kind of your thoughts around pricing as we start to have more supply and the impact also to cost per bit.
So in terms of going into 2018, we see healthy industry demand and supply balance for NAND. And you are right to note that the bit growth is going up because of the technology transition in the industry to the 64-layer technology. And when we look at the demand trends, those demand trends continue to be strong, as I just pointed out, related to SSDs as well as increasing average capacities of flash in mobile devices and all kinds of other devices. So demand continues to be strong. We see healthy trends in that regard in 2018 time frame. Regarding pricing, we don't specifically, for competitive reasons, provide comments on pricing on the call. But we'd just like to point out that we believe that the healthy industry environment is one where price decline is less than or equal to cost decline. And we are certainly focused on aggressively reducing our product costs with -- and realizing successfully our technology production ramp of 64-layer.
And just my follow-up, Sanjay. One of the positive trends that has been happening at Micron is the diversification of the end markets for DRAM. And you could just compare this cycle, say, to previous cycles maybe not just too long ago, only about 3 years ago where PCs were a higher percentage of DRAM and now they are mid-20% range today. So can you talk about that phenomenon, and you mentioned it in your prepared remarks, but the diversification of the end markets in DRAM specialty, particularly in graphics and automotive and server, how that is affecting the business model, how that is affecting the customer relationships and engagements going forward?
Certainly, the diversification of the end markets for DRAM absolutely bodes well for the future health of our business. We are enjoying the benefits of that. Calendar year 2017, as you noted, is a great example. And you just pointed out the mix of our DRAM business between PC. What used to be just about PC and mobile is now very much about PC, mobile, server, automotive in multitude of markets. And Micron has really great presence with variety of -- I mean, whole slew of customers and channels. So this really bodes well, plays very well to the strength of Micron. It has really, for a long time, enjoyed a diversified set of global customers and great presence in channels. And that is coming into full play as the demand requirements for DRAM continue to grow nicely and into 2 multiple mega-markets.
And our next question comes from the line of Mark Newman with Bernstein.
My question is about the technology migration. You talked about the 64-layer second crossover, I believe, second half FY '18. Can you talk about what's next on NAND Flash 96-layer or whatever it is and what the timing is? And will Micron look at transitioning to a charged trap flash alternative at 96-layer or perhaps one after that? And then similarly for DRAM, when -- what is the plan for 1Y and timing for EUV?
With respect to NAND, in terms of our third-generation 3D NAND, we are not yet disclosing the number of layers in that technology. As I said in my prepared remarks, we are continuing to make good progress with that, and we plan to be introducing that technology in the 2018 -- calendar 2018 time frame and continuing to deploy CMOS Under the Array technology that continues to provide Micron a die-size leadership position, which is usually attractive cost point of view. And with respect to DRAM in terms of 1Y node, we will be introducing that node also in calendar 2018 time frame. And beyond that, we are not providing any specific details for our technology related to competitive basis. And your question regarding floating gate, we have a strong road map of future technologies related to floating gate.
And then just as a quick follow-up if I may. When do you think you will narrow the gap or catch up potentially with Samsung in both the NAND, 3D NAND and DRAM? I mean, I think that you have alluded before to closing the gap and narrowing the gap to 0 hopefully eventually. I don't think it's happened yet. Is there an update on your thinking of when that could be?
As we have indicated before that in terms of technology cost position as well as the technology node readiness, in recent times over the course of last couple of years, Micron has lagged the competitors in terms of getting advanced technology ready and at par with them and deploying those technologies into volume production. However, in recent times, Micron has made very good progress in this area, and we are getting the benefit of that as we are ramping those technologies into production. I have said before that these kind of undertakings, driving accelerated deployment of new technology nodes into volume production and continuing to narrow the gap on the cost front is a multiyear phenomenon, and we have made very good progress in this regard. I fully expect us to make -- continue to make good progress in fiscal year 2018 as well. And we will -- we are, of course, very much focused on continuing to accelerate the time line of our future technologies into production and then well positioned to ramp those technologies into volume production as well. And along with this, of course, remain very much focused on driving a greater mix of high-value solutions both in DRAM and NAND as well. So these are really 2 very important pillars of our strategy: driving cost competitiveness and driving greater mix of high-value solutions. And these things don't happen overnight. They will continue to be strong growth opportunities for us going forward over the course of the next few years.
And our next question comes from the line of Steven Fox with Cross Research.
Two quick questions for me. First of all, you mentioned that as demand -- your bit growth accelerates for NAND next year, that you expect to capture some of the pent-up demand that the NAND market is seeing. I guess, I was curious if you can talk about what gives you confidence that your -- that pent-up demand hasn't actually turned into demand destruction this year, why it will still be there. And secondly, if I look at CapEx breakdown that you provided, it looks like about $1.5 billion or so is dedicated towards product enablement. And I was just curious how that number compares to maybe a year ago and if there's anything you'd say it's most focused on.
So I will let Ernie comment on the CapEx. But on the demand side, as I pointed out earlier, I mean, it's not that this demand is perishable. I mean, this demand -- in terms of the trend of SSDs replacing HDDs in clients' notebook computers where their attach rate continues to increase in 2017, attach rate of SSDs to PCs is around 35%. That attach rate, over the course of next few years, continues to grow to around 50% in 2018 and, by 2020 time frame, expected to grow to around 75%. So these demand trends are secular in nature. It's the same thing on the enterprise side and on the cloud side that attach rates of SSDs as well as the average capacity requirement on a per-server basis continue to go up as well. So these are really very solid secular trends here that are long term in nature. And of course, the trends of mobile devices adding new rich features such as augmented realities, such as rich displays, all of these are trends that also continue to drive higher average capacities in mobile devices. So I feel very good about the demand trends on the NAND side.
Yes, and just to follow up on the CapEx. If you look year-on-year, we just reported the totality of fiscal '17, and you would get a reasonably similar number within the ranges we provided. So there, we would expect on a hard dollar basis perhaps $100 million to $200 million more in that enablement and technology piece of the business. And that's predominantly related to the centers of excellence that we've been talking about relative to wanting to consolidate a lot of our back-end operations very close to our front-end operations.
Some of the product enablement CapEx is related to back-end captive assembly operations, which will help us improve our cost position going forward. And of course, also, there is CapEx associated with upgrading of the infrastructure that is needed to realize the technology transitions.
And our next question comes from the line of Chris Danely with Citigroup.
Can you just give us a little color on, I guess, the 3 main end markets, server, mobile and PC on tightness or relative tightness and how it trended during the quarter? And any information, either qualitative or quantitative, you have on inventory levels out there with channel or at customers? Just on DRAM.
Sure, Chris. So I think as has been the case for a few quarters now, there's actually a fair amount of tightness across that -- across those 3 channels that you mentioned. So it would be hard to distinguish one from the other relative to any nuances there. I don't think there's an inventory issue. Certainly, if you actually take a look at inventory levels that are reported, which are typically financial numbers, and adjust those for dollar costs of how pricing has changed over the course of the year, you do get a bit of a different perspective on inventory, as reported by a variety of customers and channel partners in those areas, but the environment continues to be strong. The supply-demand circumstances continue to be fairly tight, and we're working very closely with our customers to make sure that we stay in close sync with them as they think about their plans going forward.
And for my follow-up question for Sanjay. By the way, welcome to the DRAM party. You were not afraid to engage in M&A at your previous shop. Can you talk about the willingness or appetite for M&A at this point for Micron versus the desires to continue to improve the balance sheet?
We do not rule out M&A in the future. Right now, our focus is on the priorities that I mentioned that include cost competitiveness and strengthening the high value mix in our revenue. And of course, if and when we were to engage in M&A, our focus would, of course, be to try to strengthen our future opportunity and make it an opportunity that absolutely provides a strong ROI. Beyond that, I will not speculate in this matter.
And our next question comes from the line of Karl Ackerman with Cowen and Company.
Ernie and Sanjay, I wanted to ask more of a strategic question. Two of your competitors in the NAND industry have been at disagreement on the trajectory of their manufacturing partnership. Are you and your existing NAND partner inclined to abstain from future partnerships? And I have a follow-up, please.
I don't think the experience that, I think, you're referring to, colors our perspective on partnerships, at all partnerships are very individualized, partner-specific set of activities. And so certainly, while we continue to become informed just as you do, our color would be very specific to the circumstances at hand vis-a-vis any potential partnerships or the continuation of any partnerships.
And I think we have a long history of valued partnerships here and knowing how to make the partnerships work well. So I mean, partnerships are important. Absolutely.
Understood. Appreciate the color. I guess, for my final question. This was somewhat addressed earlier in the call. I just want to move back to just some of the content growth that we have been talking about. But our fieldwork during the quarter indicated that DRAM fulfillment rates, at least in the server market, improved from last quarter, but they were still well below 100%. Are you seeing more active engagement today with tier 2 customers for longer-term contract agreements that gives you greater confidence in your capacity planning assumptions?
I mean, we are definitely seeing strong demand trends from the entire spectrum of our customers. Large, what you would call Tier 1 or Tier 2, as you term, although all customers are important to us, and we do engage meaningfully with them and we work closely with them to understand their demand requirements. And we apply our own judgment to their demand requirements as well in terms of assessing the overall industry demand trends. And based on those demand understanding of our -- on behalf of our customers, we project healthy industry demand-supply environment in DRAM and NAND.
And our next question comes from the line of Vijay Rakesh with Mizuho.
Just looking on the DRAM side. You mentioned the crossover of 1X nanometer. When do you expect to see that? And if you can give some color on what the cost structures are as you transition the mix to 1X.
Sure. So we talked about being at bit output crossover for 1X DRAM by -- before the end of calendar year 2018. And then as we have previously shared for the 1X node, we see somewhere roughly 45% increase in bits per wafer versus 20-nanometer and about a 20 -- to slightly more than 20% cost reduction on a cost per bit basis.
Right. Got it. And on the NAND side, obviously, pretty nice numbers on the storage business side, up 71%. But could you parse out how much is enterprise mix for you on NAND? And obviously, you guys have seen some good traction there. Where is the enterprise mix exiting next year, let's say?
So we said that our SSD makes up about 20% of our NAND revenue, and that consists of our sales of client -- to client customers as well as to the hyperscale cloud and enterprise customers. And both are roughly about the same in both of those categories. Beyond that, we don't provide further breakdown.
And our next question comes from the line of Tristan Gerra with Baird.
Looking at your production cost reduction time line. Is it fair to assume that there's going to be some slowdown as you reach crossover for 64-layer in NAND? Meaning that after that, there could be a little bit of a slowdown in terms of your ability to reduce production costs. And then if you could reiterate the production cost reduction targets for NAND and DRAM for 2018?
Sure. So I think that in terms of gen 3 NAND, we'll certainly talk more about that as we are able to in terms of what we might expect and whatever is appropriate for that. So it is true, just on a mathematical basis, that as you progress up layer count on an absolute basis, there are less incremental bits, and there is an association between cost reduction and bit growth opportunity. But in terms of providing specifics, it's very, very early to share that with you. And if you look at 64-layer versus the first generation, it's somewhere in the realm, as we've talked about before, of 2x the density and roughly in aggregate of 30% reduction in bit cost.
In general, the technology complexity increases with subsequent technology generations both in DRAM and NAND. And also given the increased technology complexity, gigabytes or gigabits that you gained in NAND as well as DRAM on a per-wafer basis tends to decline with advanced technology nodes. So all of those factors play a role in terms of cost reduction capabilities as well going forward.
Okay, great. And then a quick second question. So you talked about the adoption rate trajectory of SSDs in notebooks. Could you also give us your expectation both now and, say, in a year or 2 in terms of the adoption rate for SSDs in a data center and traditional enterprise server?
Sure, I can do that. And I just want to add a comment to the previous question on cost. My comment was related to cost on a per wafer -- gigabytes-per-wafer basis from one technology node to the next. Of course, cost also depends very much on how you deploy those technologies into volume production, and this is one of our focus areas in terms of deploying advanced technologies faster into production. Now specific to your second question regarding the attach rates in enterprise and server markets, so SSD attach rate is around 50% there in terms of -- on an SSD per-unit basis. And opportunity, there is greater. Average capacities are definitely moving fairly fast. In fact, enterprise and data center is one of the fastest-growth segments for flash in terms of year-over-year bit demand increases that are projected. Average capacities in enterprise and data center for SSDs are over 3 terabytes. That's the average capacity, and that trend continues to increase by some projections, tripling almost to 9 terabytes by 2020 time frame. So as I was saying earlier, I mean, these demand trends for increasing attach rate of SSDs in client and data center cloud computing applications as well as increases in average capacity are secular trends.
And our final question comes from the line of Mark Delaney with Goldman Sachs.
First question is a follow-up on CapEx. I was hoping you could clarify the comment about no new wafer capacity additions. I know you said that explicitly for DRAM, but can you clarify if that also applies to NAND Flash? And on that topic, if you could help us understand to what extent you may need to invest in new cleanroom capacity as part of that CapEx guidance next year, obviously even without adding new wafer capacity that the amount of factory floor space is going up for both 1X nanometer and more so for 3D NAND. I know the company had some available. But just wondering if any of the spending relates to cleanroom capacity due to the floor space requirements.
Yes, Mark. So certainly, the statement about no new wafer capacity in fiscal year 2018 applies equally to both DRAM and NAND. And relative to your second question, there is not anything material relative to the CapEx guide that we shared that relates to construction costs or whatnot. As you pointed out, there is obviously incremental cleanroom space available or could be available at pretty low cost, but it would not be material in the course of the overall guide that we provided.
Okay. And if I could just follow up specifically on smartphone demand trends. If you could touch on what the company is seeing in terms of end demand for some of the flagship models specifically, but also if you could talk about some of the Chinese domestic OEMs, if you're starting to see any pickup in demand trends for memory from those customers.
I think in the flagship models, to answer your specific question, the demand for DRAM as well as for NAND, average capacities continues to go up. And of course, the mix of these high-end smartphones also, as a part of the total smartphone market, continues to go up. And specifically to DRAM, average capacities of DRAM in high-end smartphones, going from somewhere over 3 gigabyte in 2017, projected to go up to over 5 gigabyte, closer to 6 gigabyte by 2020 time frame. And specifically to NAND, average capacities of NAND in high-end smartphones in 2017 somewhere around 70 gigabytes, let's say, projected to double or more than double by 2020 time frame as well. So again, the average capacity increased trend in smartphones continues to be solid, not only, actually, in high-end smartphones but in value segment of the smartphone market as well.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today. I'd like to turn the floor back over to Micron for any closing comments.
Thank you. That concludes our call today. We really appreciate your support. And as a reminder, we will be posting the prepared remarks from today's call as well as a webcast replay on our website later this afternoon.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you may now disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.