Maybe a big picture question directed to Sundar. As you think about the Google Assistant and what it can do medium to long term, maybe talk a little bit about how the Assistant, as a product, could narrow the gap between consumption and utility inside your products versus monetization over time with the specific focus -- I'd love to hear about local in particular.
It's a good question. When I think about, we have -- we're very focused over the long term to making sure the Assistant can actually help people get things done in the real world. And so obviously, when you think about it from that standpoint, local becomes important. Over time, just like when the transition happened from desktop to mobile, people's bar for what they expect increased. They wanted more answers. They wanted more immediate gratification, right? And that's a continuum, and I think you'll see the trends. And so over time, we are laser focused on making sure we can deliver against those experiences. And I think local and their particular strength over time, both in terms of the expertise we have built in local as well as our investment in Maps is hopefully paying off.
And our next question comes from Doug Anmuth of JPMorgan.
First one for Ruth. I was just hoping you could help us understand at least qualitatively how core margins for the advertising business are trending within the Google segment. And then, Sundar, just on the cloud business, I know you talked about 4 new regions being built out. Can you just talk about your strategy in building out that cloud infrastructure, how we should think about it in terms of building out extra capacity or whether it's more in line with near-term demand?
Thanks. So starting with your margin question. Look, as we've often said, we're focused on revenue and operating income dollar growth and not on operating margins. We have strong positions in healthy, growing areas and are adding really exciting additional growth areas. And that's what we mean when we discuss driving long-term revenue and earnings growth. To get a little more specific, the gross margin this quarter obviously reflects our product mix shift, and although the cost of sales is higher as a percentage of revenues, these costs are associated with high-growth product areas that enable us to create value for all of our stakeholders. And then on the OpEx side, the second quarter reflects a number of factors. First, I think, really, to your question on an over time point, you can see the impact of the timing shift in the equity refresh, which we discussed previously. Now as a reminder, that does abate in the back half of the year, but you can see it here in the second quarter. And then what you're also seeing in OpEx growth is the investments in areas that we've spelled out. So for example, in R&D, you can see the impact of the headcount increases in our priority areas, particularly cloud and machine learning, and marketing spend similarly reflects the strategic priority areas we've delineated, particularly hardware and YouTube subscription. But as I said in my opening comments, we're increasing investment in areas where we see the most potential. We're scaling it back in others. We're focused on organizational effectiveness to make the most of all of our resources, and all of that really underpins the goal to sustain both revenue and earnings growth over the longer term.
And our next question comes from Heather Bellini of Goldman Sachs.
I was just wondering, Sundar, you mentioned some of the strength you're seeing in GCP, and I was just wondering if you could share with us, when you do win, is there any commonality around the type of workloads that people are choosing you for? And can you share with us any updates on the go to market and kind of how you feel about where you've come over the last year? But even more importantly, what do you need to do to get it where you need it to be over the next 12 months?
All right. Thanks, Heather. Also, I'll take Doug's question on the infrastructure, too, and do it together since they are related to cloud. Overall, when we think about our infrastructure, obviously, we are serving cloud as well as our internal products, which are seeing tremendous growth as well. In terms of serving cloud customers, we are world class in availability and being reliable, and those are things we want to stay best in class. So we're clearly planning for that and planning ahead for our infrastructure, and we have been consistently doing that. And Heather, in terms of your question about workloads and stuff, we are actually seeing quite a diverse set of use cases across sectors and industries and geographies. And so I would say the breadth of what we have seen has really surprised me. In terms of go to market, I shared an update on it last quarter. Not sure there's much more interesting to add. We are continuing to do it well. We are scaling up, and all the teams and the structure Diane has put in place is beginning to work well. And we are continuing to hire and scale all of this up as quickly as we can.
And our next question comes from Mark Mahaney of RBC Capital Markets.
I had 2 questions, please. First, one on TAC. Ruth, the factors that cause -- have been causing TAC to rise seemed relatively structural, the outsized growth of mobile and the rise of programmatic. So there's no particular reason to think that we should see anything other than gradual increase in TAC as a percentage of both O&O and network revenue going forward. So are there any reasons why that wouldn't be the case in the next year or 2? And then, Sundar, I thought one of the more interesting innovations or that was -- that kind of came out of Google I/O was visual search. And could you just talk about the -- maybe a little bit the roadmap for that or the extent of which -- how long it will take us actually to see that broadly in the market and what you think the appetite -- or how do you think that will change the way people search for products in the future, the ability to also search visually through your phone?
So on the first question, there are obviously a number of factors that affect sites TAC. We've talked about them over time. The primary driver again this quarter, as you note in your question, was the strong growth in mobile and the fact that more mobile searches are subject to TAC. But the increase in sites TAC year-over-year, I think what I would stress is it really provides another lens on just how strong our mobile business is. There are other factors that affect the TAC rate, including the mix of paid versus organic traffic as well as changes in partner mix and agreement terms. But I think the main point of your question here is we do continue to expect sites TAC to increase but our focus remains on growing profit dollars. And I'd go back to my comment. We're just really pleased with the strength of our mobile business, which is benefiting profit dollars even as the TAC percentage increases. And programmatic, kind of a very similar answer, which is we're pleased to have a strong position in the growing area.
And on questions around visual search, when we think about Google Lens, we think about it as a set of capabilities, which will roll out across many different products. But we'll mainly start getting it in the hands of our users in Q4. I think early days, we want to make sure it works well for use cases where it can and bet on the long-term trends in computer vision as we make progress there. I also think there are cases where pulling out a phone and looking at it is a bit cumbersome, and so over time, as form factors emerge, where it's more natural for you to look at and input that into computing, it'll get used more. Overall, for humans, the way they see, visual input is a very high bandwidth way of communicating, and so it's important that we bring that in computing. So long run I'm very bullish on it, but we're going to roll this out slowly and thoughtfully.
And our next question comes from Peter Stabler of Wells Fargo Securities.
One for Sundar. At Marketing Next, your team unveiled new ways that Google is leveraging consumer intent signals across your billion user plus platforms. And it seems that some of the walls between product data silos are being lowered a bit, and one of the obvious gains that Sridhar highlighted was search personalization. Wondering if you can speak broadly to the opportunity of looking at data from a targeting perspective more holistically across platforms.
I think it's important we've always felt, as marketers, when they spend and try to reach users, the more we can give them visibility about how their spend is working and they can attribute across all the stages of the funnel, I think that will really help make everything work well. So we've always taken that long-term view. And everything we do, be it store visits, which we did a while ago or more recently at Google Marketing Next, we talked about Google Attribution as well. So all that starts adding up and I think pushes in this right long-term direction. And there's more work to be done. But I think as users use everything across multiple products and devices in a thoughtful way, I think making all of this work well, we see it as a opportunity ahead of us.
And our next question comes from Brian Nowak of Morgan Stanley.
I have 2. The first one, you've talked about micro-moments throughout the course of the year, micro-moments on mobile. I was wondering, could you give us a couple of examples of micro-moments or search verticals where you've really seen an increase in your monetization over the last year? And Sundar, as you look out across all the search verticals, what are the 2 biggest 1 or 2 use cases you still see to improve the overall relevancy of search results and potential monetization?
On the first one, I would probably be -- rather than be very specific, any time people are looking to buy, find, go, do things, you could be looking for a local pizza, you could be buying -- we see queries like jeans near me, and people are looking for jeans next to them. So these are all very, very specific things. I mean, all of these cases we have found, we've been able to impact the experience for both users and advertisers. So I think that applies generally broadly. In terms of all the verticals, I think there are a lot of opportunities. Local has been an area of strength for us. We have seen a lot of traction. And I continue to think, as a vertical, given the assets we've built up over the years, we can continue to invest more and do better for our users.
And our next question comes from Ross Sandler of Barclays.
I had 2 questions for Sundar. First is you mentioned you had a 15% yield improvement on publisher yields for -- through DoubleClick from machine learning. Is there a comparable stat inside of Google on an operated search or YouTube: after implementing machine learning, you saw yield improvement of X? I'd be curious to hear that. And then the second question is, as we look out into the future and you guys mentioned 2 billion Android actives at I/O, and you just mentioned 11 apps per user in your prepared remarks, if Google is forced to unbundle their own apps from Android in the future, what's the strategy to ensure that Maps and YouTube and Search get distribution and Android doesn't kind of go the way of China in other markets? Be curious to hear that.
Let me take the first one first. On machine learning, we definitely -- machine learning, we've been using it on Search. RankBrain has become one of the important signals in addition to the many other signals in Search and so definitely has had an impact. Same on YouTube across-the-board. I don't have any specific metrics to give, but we definitely are seeing impact, and we think we are in early days of the impact we can see. In terms of Android, we are obviously thoughtfully building Android out and scaling it out, and we offer our apps as part of it. OEMs get to distribute other apps as well. We think it's a very open market, open ecosystem, works well for everyone involved, and I expect that to continue. And a lot of our products which are successful on Android happen to be successful outside of Android as well, including on the Web. These are products generally used by billions of users. And by now we have worked hard to earn that trust and scale, and so I'm confident we can continue scaling those up.
And our next question comes from Dan Salmon of BMO Capital Markets.
Sundar, I think the last update we heard publicly on promoted places on Maps was in December, when you announced that you'd be beginning some limited tests. I don't think there's been any public comment from the company since then, and quite frankly, we haven't heard a whole lot anecdotally about it either. So I was just hoping for a quick update on that product.
Overall, I mean, it's an area where we are still like really focused on improving the consumer experience. I think we are evolving Maps to be a lot more beyond just driving directions, and users are responding to it. And I think we are in the process of making all that work better. And also, we have also focused in terms of what we see as local opportunity within search as well. But we'll continue testing and evolving. I think we want to make sure we get the consumer experience right before we invest more on promoted opportunities on Maps.
And our next question comes from Justin Post of Merrill Lynch.
A few for Ruth. First, I'm wondering if you could comment at all on the Cloud business profitability, medium or long term, how you're thinking about that. Second, I'll go ahead and take a shot at the EC decision lately. It clearly is material for financials. How are you thinking about approaching that decision? And does that impact any of your other advertising businesses as far as innovation? And then finally, any thoughts on verticals that were really strong this quarter that supported the organic revenue growth?
So on -- as you know, we don't break out by product. Just add a bit more color on Cloud. We're clearly excited about the opportunity we have here, and it does continue to drive sizable revenue growth as I said in my opening comments, as did Sundar, and we are seeing momentum in the business. I think the comment that Sundar made about the number of new deals over 500,000 increasing 3x year-on-year gives you an indication of the momentum in the business. It's obviously not a financial forecast, but it does display the traction we're having with cloud in the market. And GCP remains one of the fastest growing businesses across Alphabet. G Suite continues to have strong growth. So we're really pleased with what that means for both the longer-term trends and the profitability. We do believe that from the many years of investment we've already made in things like technical infrastructure and security, which operate with tremendous efficiency, that provides us with a benefit. But near term, we're investing meaningfully in sales and engineering service, support, continuing to expand out regions to make sure that we're delivering the best experience for our enterprise customers. And that's what we're really focused on. In terms of -- I think your second question was the EC. There's really not much of an update there. We're still early in our analysis of the decision and the right next steps, and we do have time to notify the commission of proposed remedies as well as to implement changes. The main thing is we're very focused on helping users and advertisers and are reviewing our options. It's an ongoing legal matter, so there's not much more to comment on that one. And then the third question, what...
On verticals that were strong.
Yes. In terms of -- I think that what you're trying to get at here on what are we seeing in particular with sites revenue, and there's not any one thing to call out, whether it's by vertical or steps that we're taking. And that's really what I would point you to more. I think it's an important point that we're very excited about the opportunities here given both the underlying secular trends broadly with mobile. Sundar's talked a lot about that. But also, all that we're able to layer on top of it just given the engineering acumen here, and we talked about this on prior calls, it's true again here this quarter that no one change has been driving the results. And so what you're seeing is the combined benefit of a number of changes we've made. It's really this maniacal focus on all elements of the user and advertiser experience and nothing to call out by vertical.
And our next question comes from Mark May of Citi.
I think the first one for Sundar. Data, of course, is a key differentiator in digital advertising. I was hoping that maybe could talk about how you've changed your use of Google Search data in -- recently in areas outside of search and how that is or might impact the effectiveness of advertising on channels like YouTube and others outside of search. And then, Ruth, in your prepared remarks, you mentioned tremendous growth in mobile search in the quarter. I think that's a more emphatic statement than in the recent quarters. Hoping that maybe you could provide more color on some of the areas where you're seeing the change in growth trajectory coming from within mobile search.
On your first question, obviously, we do these things with the foremost thing being -- making sure we do the right things for user privacy. But within our own products, we are trying to help users get a better experience across on the consumer side and the advertising side, and I think there is opportunity there. And so we'll be thoughtful as we move forward.
And then on mobile search, I think what you're hearing is we're really pleased with the ongoing efforts there. And as I just said, there was no one change that really drove this. What's extraordinary about that team is with the focus on users and advertisers, what is it that is most useful. Sundar spoke about some of them with local, but it's really -- again, it's a lot of small, incremental efforts that, in the aggregate, continue to enable us to benefit from what's a really nice underlying secular trend here. And that's what we're seeing in the results again.
And our next question comes from (inaudible)...
That's nothing around -- are you listening to this? That's nothing around like geography or platforms or...
I'm not sure if that was directed to me or -- but in terms of geography, I think one -- hopefully, one of the benefits of the way we've recast the data here last quarter was so you can actually get a bit more insight into what's going on around the globe, and that's why I made the comment that we're having really broad strength globally. You can see it in each one of the regions here. U.S. continues to deliver strong growth engagement across products. If you look at EMEA, on a fixed FX basis, up 21%. You can see the same in APAC. The same in other Americas. So yes, there is broad-based strength across geographies. And I think, as -- I'm not calling out one particular area because the -- what you're seeing here is the secular trend. I've used that term a couple of times now. And we're continuing to benefit from that around the globe, and we're continuing to benefit from, on top of that, the efforts of our team.
And our next question comes from Stephen Ju of Credit Suisse.
So Sundar, I'm just wondering if you can give us some sense of advertiser adoption, particularly among your retail clients per store visit product as it seems like there's still a large opportunity to drive off-line purchasing. And Ruth, can you give us some sense of any headwinds you might be seeing in your streams of revenue away from Play or GCP in the O&O revenue line, as we're just not that accustomed to seeing a sequentially flat revenue line there.
I think I spoke about it in my opening remarks. But since store visits measurement was announced 3 years ago, advertisers have measured over 5 billion store visits globally. And I think we are just -- we have just barely scratched the surface. At our Marketing Next in May, we announced that the store visits measurement will also allow for YouTube TrueView campaigns, and we'll be rolling out store sales measurement in the coming months. So advertisers can actually measure in-store revenue in addition to store visits delivered by search and shopping ads. So we've had good proof points. Advertisers who have used it -- for example, Virgin Holidays used it, factored in-store sales measurements and they realized their search campaigns generate double the profit compared to looking at online KPIs alone. So I think there's a lot of opportunity there, and so we'll do more there over time.
And then you asked on the other revenue line. It was up nicely again this quarter, up 42% year-on-year, and that obviously includes the impact of FX. It's obviously a mix of businesses, including some of our bigger investment areas, most notably Cloud and hardware. And as I said at the outset, Play continues to perform really well. I think if you were asking about the quarter-on-quarter sequentially, you noted, we're talking about a mix of business that have different characteristics. And to state the obvious, Play is more hit driven. It's highly seasonal. Hardware is also seasonal. So the year-on-year provides a better sense of the dynamics of the business, and that's what you can see in this lineup year-on-year really nicely this quarter.
And our next question comes from Colin Sebastian of Robert Baird.
Maybe just one question for Sundar. I wonder if you could update us on your thoughts regarding the conversions of Chrome and Android operating systems. And in particular, I'm curious whether the emergence of Google Assistant and Voice as a corollary across devices is a reason to move forward with more integration between the 2 platforms.
Look, I mean we've been thoughtfully doing it, putting users first, and I'm excited at how Android apps are coming to Chromebooks. And we see that as a great opportunity, and I think that will help us deliver a very compelling experience. And we just have started doing it this year, and I expect it to really get momentum as we go through to next year. So that's an example of conversions, and I think that will work really well. And so -- and in terms of products like Google Assistant and Voice, I think we will make sure, for users, it doesn't matter and that they work across every platform they use, including our platforms as well as other people's platforms. So we think about making sure our services reach as many users as possible, and so we are working on that as well.
And our final question comes from the line of John Blackledge of Cowen and Company.
Two questions. So for Sundar or Ruth, within cloud, could you talk about your view of G Suite's enterprise penetration right now, kind of key drivers of adoption longer term and if you view it as a potential differentiator for Google Cloud versus other large competitors? And then within YouTube, 60 minutes per day of viewing on phones and tablets isn't obviously incredible at that scale. Any thoughts on kind of what could drive further material viewing or engagement growth over time?
Maybe on YouTube, I would say YouTube is one of those products which is scaling really well globally, just like Search did. And we are seeing real strong growth on mobile, and we are seeing real strong growth for YouTube on emerging markets as well. And we are seeing real strong growth on television. So if I look at YouTube on mobile, on emerging markets, on larger screens, they all look like newer opportunities, and so I think there's a lot more growth ahead. And on cloud, I think you have kind of answered it. Obviously, we see differentiated strengths in machine learning, data analytics, security and reliability. And the combination of not just GCP, G Suite working together with GCP, we are seeing increasing win rates and adoption across enterprise customers. And I also think all the investments we are doing in terms of broadening our ecosystem, including the newer partnerships with the companies I mentioned earlier, that should begin to pay off, and overall, the return on investment from the hiring and region expansion we are doing. So I think we are set up incredibly well, and I look forward to the momentum ahead.
Thank you, and that concludes our question-and-answer session for today. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Ellen West for any closing remarks.
Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again on our third quarter 2017 call. Thank you, and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program. You may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.