A couple of questions on the NAND side. Sanjay, at least among the investor community, there seems to be some concerns that there's going to be a flood of supply coming online into the industry in the first half. I'm just wondering if you have any thoughts about what your view is about the supply/demand balance as we head into the first half. And then, for Ernie, the NAND gross margin improvement is 900 basis points, sequentially. I know you mentioned mix healthy there, but I'm just curious if you could provide some more color as to exactly what's driving that, and how sustainable that is going forward?
So in terms of the industry demand supply environment, let me just say that with respect to the industry supply growth in the calendar year 2018, we have said that the industry supply growth would be approaching 50%. While that is more than what the calendar year '17 supply growth is in the range of 35% to 40%, the -- overall, what you have to look at is the demand requirements. In calendar year '17, of course, supply has been tight. There has been pent-up demand, particularly in the areas of client SSDs and the client PC, notebook PC environments. The march toward high-density SSDs in notebook PCs was somewhat slowed down given the overall tightness of supply in calendar year '17. When I look ahead at calendar year '18, I see strong demand trends with respect to attach rate of SSDs and client PCs continue to increase. The applications related to cloud and data centers, enterprise data centers continuing to drive higher average capacities, usage in cloud and data center applications as well. And certainly, in mobile applications also, the average capacities of NAND content continue to increase. And these are all increasing because of the trends, right? I mean, attach rate in notebook PCs in calendar year '17, about 35% going toward over the course of next several years by 2020 time frame, getting to 75% attach rates. So a lot of HDD, that is still to be replaced with SSDs. And same trends are continuing in all markets for NAND. Average capacities are continuing to increase. So the demand trends continues to be very robust. For flash, yes, more supply environment, but we are very focused on continuing to strengthen our product portfolio and increase our share with respect to SSD markets as well as with more managed NAND solutions to address the mobile markets.
And relative to the question about margins, I think there are 2 pieces of that. One, we are making progress toward a mix -- a higher value-added mix of solutions, and those typically carry the opportunity for higher margins. Also, we continue to make progress on the cost side with respect to increasing amounts of 3D NAND as well as TLC, and you had a good quarter for cost reduction as well. So it's a combination of both market facing with the higher value-add solutions, and then, a good quarter from an operational perspective relative to cost.
And then, maybe just one follow-up, Ernie, on the balance sheet. I think you previously said your gross debt target is about $8 billion, which you said you're going to reach, I guess, next quarter. Given -- assuming that the tax bill will pass, is there any change to that target? And then, if you can talk about, again, assuming that the tax bill will pass, what's your priorities for cash going forward?
Yes. I don't think we've said that we'd reach that gross debt target in FQ2. We said, by the end of our fiscal year. And so I wouldn't expect that we would achieve that level end fiscal Q2. The tax bill, as we understand it, would not necessarily change the priorities, which are always to continue to make sure we have the best technology we can in production and to be able to transition that at a time that makes sense for us. And then, for fiscal year '18, certainly, getting the balance sheet in shape relative to these aggregate levels of debt.
And our next question comes from the line of Harlan Sur with JPMorgan.
On the DRAM side, you've got Intel ramping Skylake. You've got AMD ramping EPYC on the server CPU side. Cloud and hyperscale CapEx spending looks to grow about 30% next year. Given all of this, do you guys anticipate continued momentum and mix in your server and cloud business in DRAM to continue to move higher next year? And then, from an industry perspective, does the server and cloud segment become a bigger part of the DRAM consumption mix over the next 2 to 3 years overtaking mobile?
Yes. Absolutely. Cloud and server, data center enterprise as well as cloud data centers absolutely will continue to be the biggest growth drivers at large volumes for the DRAM industry. And we have very strong penetration in these markets. And actually, we do expect to continue to build momentum in these markets going forward.
Great. And Sanjay, you talked about semi and fully autonomous wins in the quarter. All of the major auto OEMs and self-systems guys are focused on this. We talked to one of the leading guys that's focused on sensors and processor technology required for these types of vehicles. They're talking about 25, 30 gigabytes of DRAM and 1 terabyte SSDs per car for level 4 and level 5 fully autonomous. That's a pretty significant step up in DRAM and NAND content. Is that consistent with how you see the content trends in automotive over the next kind of 3 to 5 years?
It absolutely is. I mean, when you look at autonomous vehicles, they really are level 5 autonomous vehicles in the future are projected to have about 40 gigabyte of DRAM content in them. And when you think about it, that is very similar to the average capacity that's associated with servers -- in the server workstations, right? So these cars will be really very powerful computers in the future, and they are not only going to be driving tremendous amount of DRAM content usage, but they will also drive NAND Flash usage. They will be generating, using data to make millions of real-time split-second decisions to make sure that the passengers in the autonomous vehicles can be transported effortlessly and safely to their destination. There will be sensors from sonar to camera that will be generating billions of signals, and all of that data will have to be processed, accessed in order to make fast decisions. So you're absolutely right to note that this is really a secular trend here in front of us in terms of driving continued usage of memory and storage. Earlier, we talked about cloud and data center applications. And again, those are growing faster than the rest of the industry. Autonomous vehicles will be another big driver in the future. And Micron is uniquely positioned with a strong portfolio of solutions, both with flash solutions as well as DRAM memory solutions to address these fast-growing market trends.
And our next question comes from the line of Blayne Curtis with Barclays.
A couple of questions. Maybe on DRAM, can you just go back to -- the servers been a huge driver, and that's really been without Intel's Purley's still the minority. Can you just maybe talk about content per server? How much that increased this year? And then, as you look into next year, how much of a driver is Purley as you look in the second half, and that being more meaningful?
So in terms of content for server, I think 2017, if you look at flash, attach rate, it's about average capacity around 2.5 -- 2,500 gigabytes. And when you look at projection over 2018 timeframe going to anywhere above 3,000 gigabyte average capacity continues to march ahead by 2021 timeframe, almost tripling from the 2017 levels, well above 8,000 gigabytes as well. So that is on the SSD side. And similarly, on the DRAM side, average capacities continue to increase nicely there as well. In 2017, timeframe about 145 gigabytes per server average capacity estimated, and industry reports are showing that by 2021 timeframe going to about 350. So very strong solid and year-over-year increases, not just in near term, but again, as I say, these are secular trends here.
And then, just on the NAND side, I just want to go back to that prior question. Obviously, you're seeing a crossover at 64. How do you think about the cost trajectory here as you then start to ramp third gen as you look to the fiscal year, is there any sort of -- what's the slope of that cost curve as one is going up, and the other one's going down?
As we introduce third-generation 3D NAND, we would continue to expect that, that technology of mature yield have -- or has favorable cost dynamics relative to 64-layer. We don't believe that it will have a significant positive or negative impact in our FY '18 results as we will just be implementing that as we get into the last quarter of the fiscal year. So it won't be material enough either way to change the fundamental dynamic that we're going to see this year, which is largely driven by our 64-layer TLC NAND.
And our next question comes from the line of Kevin Cassidy with Stifel.
You had mentioned when you gave your guidance for CapEx for the year about adding more value-added into your DRAMs and flash. Can you say what percentage right now would you call in a value-added group? And what's the goal for that?
Well, in the value-added solution category, we count our SSDs index, and in fiscal Q1, we had really solid increase in our SSD revenues. We gained share in the market as well. In the mobile space, managed NAND solutions are also -- and discrete NAND solutions we consider as value-add as well. Our share in those markets today is relatively low, low single digits, but we see tremendous opportunity as we are continuing to diversify our product portfolio. And as we execute on that product road map in the quarters to come, we expect to be gaining -- making substantial progress. And of course, in the DRAM side, applications such as automotive, such as graphics, high-performance applications as they all contribute towards the value-add solution. We are not providing you any specifics at this point. We'll discuss more details at our Analyst Day in May.
Okay. Great. Maybe just as one follow-up because especially a DRAM market had been such a commodity market, are you getting any pushback from your customers that they want you to move more towards a commodity?
And let me just point out, in response to your previous question, that while we will provide more detail in May, but on a year-over-year basis, certainly, we are increasing our value-add solution mix substantially and very pleased with the progress that we are making. Regarding your second question on DRAM. DRAM really is a strategic enabler today in diversity of markets and the megatrends we talk about, whether it is data centers, cloud applications, being the fuel for AI engine, helping make decisions for various search algorithms as well as various activities in all verticals that are being pursued, leveraging AI in mobile space as more and more applications go toward augmented reality type of features in mobile requires more DRAM. DRAM is highly strategic. Even in the future, when you look at notebook computers, they will require the form factor and the low-power aspects, even in PCs of LPDRAM in future years to come. So you see -- and of course, we just talked about automotive as well. So now DRAM is addressing diversity of markets. I mean, several large diverse markets. Product portfolio, meeting the needs of these markets is becoming differentiated. And when that happens, that always gives you stronger opportunities to drive profitable growth in that market. And our customers, when we have an engagement with them, when we have dialogues with them, they are talking to us how memory, DRAM memory, is really now helping them solve the bottlenecks in their applications. So DRAM today is very different, as I've said many times before, from the DRAM in the PC-era only or when it was about just PC and mobile. Today, it is about many more applications of DRAM and really providing a very strategic enabling role in creating all these applications that are truly transforming the world right before our eyes.
And our next question comes from the line of David Wong with Wells Fargo.
I'm not sure if you said it, but on the November quarter, how much of your total NAND production was 3D NAND? And as you transition to 64-layer in the February and May quarter next year, does your NAND production drop or grow sequentially?
So about 80% of our output for the quarter just completed was on 3D. And over the course of the balance of fiscal '18, we'd expect that number to grow to about 95%. We expect that we will have some measure of bit growth, as we said. Each and every quarter, we said it would be, in the prepared remarks, a little more heavily weighted to the back half of the year.
But you, nevertheless, will grow in the first half?
Yes. Yes. That output for the quarter was up in the low single-digit range.
And our next question comes from the line of C.J. Muse with Evercore.
I guess first question on DRAM. You talked about 20% bit supply for the industry in '18, which would suggest continued tightness throughout the whole year. So curious how customers are reacting to that reality. What kind of visibility are you seeing to pricing as well as extension to contracts?
We work very closely with our customers, and we certainly work hard in terms of gaining visibility to their future requirements of DRAM and how their applications are shaping up so that we can make sure that our technology and product road map is addressing their needs. And this varies from customer to customer. Some customers tend to be more on a month by month basis, some more quarter, and some, certainly, longer-term engagements as well. And you're right to note that, yes, I mean, that the industry supply growing about 20% and demand likely to be somewhat higher. We do expect a healthy DRAM industry supply and demand environment and continue to work very closely to drive strategic growth of our revenue mix going forward.
Very helpful. And I guess as my follow-up, on the NAND side, you're talking around 50% bit growth or approaching that for the industry. One or 2 of the other players in the market are expecting lower type of bit growth. So it would appear that you're making assumptions around the 64-layer ramp that might be a little bit more robust than your competitors. So curious, how are you thinking about that ramp? And clearly, I think you'd agree the risk is probably lower than 50%, how would you kind of, I guess, put a probability around where you think it truly ends up?
So of course, in terms of projecting, our industry bit growth estimates here, we, of course, are taking into consideration our estimate of the ramp of 64-layer technology in the industry and our assumptions around ramp of wafer production as well as yield ramp of that technology. And along with other mix of technologies in the industry as well. But you're right to note that the dominant factor of the supply bit growth in the industry will be with 64 layers here. And we continually look at our estimates and we review it, based on all the intelligence that we may have as well as we may collect from third-party reports, we define our models on an ongoing basis. And if we have any changes on this, we will share them with you.
And our next question comes from the line of Joe Moore with Morgan Stanley.
I wonder, I know you don't want to get too far ahead of yourself on this, but when you get to sort of net cash neutral and you get to investment grade, what's next from a prioritization of free cash flow? And how do you just qualitatively think about cash return versus maintaining cash for more strategic uses?
I think that we will continue to prioritize the -- supporting our latest generation technology in production. As we've talked about for fiscal '18, clearly focused on getting aggregate debt down in that $8 billion range. Those things will lead to, we believe, over time, improved ratings. I think how we think about deploying cash is not wholly dependent upon the achievement of any particular ratings grade. We just think these are things that will be worked in parallel. And at the appropriate time, I think we're very open to thinking about broader uses of cash, including shareholder return programs, so those do have a place in the hierarchy of thinking about uses of our cash. But until we get to the point where we have completed or substantively completed our work on this technology deployment and regaining cost competitiveness and also getting our aggregate debt levels to the -- to a level that we are more comfortable with, certainly, those will continue to remain our priority.
Great. And then, I wondered, the disparity between the 60% operating margins in your compute business and mobile, which are still quite high, I guess, to me, sort of you can see that PC DRAM still quite a bit more profitable than mobile. How do you think about that going forward in terms of your allocation of mix? Obviously, mobile gives you more stability down the road versus the upside that you can get from PCs. How are you thinking about that balance?
Yes. Don't forget that the Compute and Networking Business Unit includes a wide array of products, which includes both client, but also includes data center, mobile -- I'm sorry, not mobile, but networking and other products as well. So it isn't just a statement about the client compute environment. And many of those subsegments within the Compute and Networking Business Unit we would also consider as strategically important. These are relationships where we have the opportunity to deploy both DRAM and NAND. And certainly, mobile continues to be important. So I wouldn't necessarily presume that the margin performance out of our Compute and Networking Business Unit is largely driven by the performance of client.
Our next question comes from the line of Romit Shah with Nomura Instinet.
Sanjay, some of your equipment -- semicap equipment suppliers have -- this is like over the last 3 months, have been raising their spending forecast for 2018, driven in part by higher DRAM investments. And my question is, what's the risk that your competitors, perhaps, are going more aggressively for share and that the 20% growth assumption you laid out for next year may actually end up proving conservative?
I think, again, our estimates based -- for DRAM as well, are based on all the information from various sources and reports that we gather and we have put that here. I do think that even when you look at estimates by other suppliers, we are all pointing to fairly close, tightly-aligned, industry supply growth estimate here. And -- but this is our estimate. We will, as I said before for NAND, same thing. We routinely look at this very, very closely. And just also remember that the technology transitions in the industry today certainly are becoming increasingly complex, and they have greater capital intensity. As well as with advanced technology nodes, you are actually getting less bits on a per wafer basis even at mature yields compared to prior generation nodes. Again, given the scaling challenges, the increased complexity. So all of these trends are actually increased technology complexity and increased capital intensity have a moderating effect on the supply growth.
And then, just on the February quarter, I don't know if you guys look at your individual periods on a seasonal basis, but it seems like the February quarter typically is a down quarter and you're guiding to sequential growth off of a better-than-expected November period. What's driving the better-than-normal seasonality for you? Is it pricing or other factors as well?
Yes. I think, Sanjay mentioned earlier the diversification of the DRAM demand stream. And certainly, that is also true on the NAND side. And in the context of that diversified demand stream, for example, automobiles tend to be far less seasonal than client PCs. And if you look at data center deployments among all of the key players, there's certainly a specific pattern per customer. But when you put them all together, there is no macro seasonality pattern that emerges when you look at that. So as we've transitioned to these diversified demand drivers, the concept of seasonality, I think, has been redefined and is perhaps less impactive on a quarter by quarter basis than it may have been in the past.
And our next question comes from the line of Jagadish Iyer with Summit Redstone.
Two questions. First, if NAND ASPs continue to decline from rising supply, do you expect cost reduction to keep pace with the ASP decline as we look at fiscal '18? And then, I have a follow-up.
I mean, we are certainly not projecting pricing for fiscal year '18 here. But again, what I'll point to you is that if you look at the history of NAND, increase in technology capabilities, technology advances, which leads to cost reductions, ultimately enable opening up of many new market applications and drive the elasticity in many of these markets as well and drive the demand environment. So I consider it as healthy if the cost declines are greater than the price declines in the industry. That's a healthy industry environment. And while we don't get into the projection of pricing, again, when we look at all the demand drivers that are ahead of us, I spoke about it repeatedly in the call today, multitude of demand drivers and in each of these large market segments, again, whether it is about cloud data center, enterprise data center, mobile, smartphones, client notebook, automotive applications, all of these are continuing to drive strong demand trends for NAND Flash application.
Yes. I think the one thing I would add to that as well is if you think about our statements around industry bit growth, which are approaching 50%, those would be associated, typically, with fairly healthy levels of cost reduction. We're not going to get into the specifics of what that might be, but it is important to remember that, that bit growth usually would be accompanied by some good cost reduction as well.
Okay. Fair enough. Then, on 3D XPoint, I was wondering how much are you earmarking for spending in fiscal '18? And has there been customers who have identified? And how should we think, generally, on a big picture, about pricing there?
So this is Ernie. The 3D XPoint CapEx and any associated R&D expenses, the CapEx piece is embedded in our nonvolatile estimates for the year, which we said was between 35% and 45% of our total spending. And as we look at that product, we're going to have to see how the markets develop, as Sanjay mentioned, before we provide any broader perspective on that.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Fox with Cross Research.
Two quick questions for me. First of all, you mentioned the market share gains in SSDs and I assumed some of that was related to fixing the component issue. But can you sort of give us some more color on where you think specifically you had most success in gaining share? And then, secondly, I know you're not going to talk specifically about pricing for the upcoming quarter, but if you could, maybe, qualify some more how you get to your sales guidance in terms of pricing and mix, that would be helpful.
In terms of SSD share gain during the quarter, we believe we gained share both in client applications as well as enterprise and cloud data center applications. Really, our products did very well there. And at this point, our offerings are with SATA drive. And next year, we'll bring out our NVMe solution sometime during calendar year '18, and that should help us expand our portfolio and give us opportunities to continue to gain share in this market. And regarding our guidance that we have given you, of course, we have certain assumptions related to total demand. And our pricing assumptions are baked in there as well. But obviously, for competitive reasons, we do not get into discussions of pricing on the call.
And our next question comes from the line of John Pitzer with Credit Suisse.
Ernie, maybe I can ask the gross margin question around NAND a little bit differently. I'm just kind of curious, given that you guys had significant gross margin upside on pricing down low single digits sequentially, under a scenario where pricing continues to decline, let's say, at a low single-digit rate sequentially, is there enough mix and cost opportunity for you to maintain and/or grow gross margins from here? Or how should we think about the parameters that you're able -- being able to maintain or grow gross margins relative to your cost and mix availability from here?
Yes. So if we're framing the scenario in the future as we continue to see sort of marginally declining pricing environment, a couple of points per quarter or so, I think there's ample room for gross margin expansion, both as a result of our cost reduction as well as the ongoing transition to high-value solutions, which would include redirecting -- continuing to redirect component sales into higher value-added solutions as well as some of our partner contracts wind down over the course of our fiscal '18 and into 2019. So I think in that pricing scenario that you've set forth, we believe there's reasonable room for gross margin expansion.
That's helpful. And a similar question on the DRAM front. You mentioned in your prepared comments that you expect more DRAM bit growth in the first half of your fiscal year than the second half. As we transition into the second half, how much -- how many levers do you have on the mix side in DRAM to be able to progress sort of gross margins higher from here?
Yes. I think, again, the same general story with respect to continuing to move towards higher value-add solutions. You heard Sanjay speak to, for example, increasing the breadth of our managed NAND offerings. If you look at server, that's certainly a very, very strong growth pattern here as well as automotive. So I think there are a number of segments where we would continue to expect to be able to optimize our bit output toward that would give us the best gross margin opportunity. And of course, even though our bit output growth is going to be lower in DRAM than NAND, we'd still expect to deliver some meaningful cost reduction there, as I articulated in the prepared remarks.
And we'll take our final question from the line of Mark Newman with Bernstein.
I had a question on CapEx and capacity. So Micron -- you stepped up the CapEx quite a bit this year from previous years. But still, quite significantly underspending some of the rivals, particularly Samsung. My question, actually, is about how is Micron thinking about the need for fabs longer term. This is more of a kind of longer-term question, because both Samsung and Hynix are building brand-new greenfield fabs as we speak. What is the status right now for Micron in both DRAM and NAND in terms of how much space you have available to you in DRAM and NAND? And I understand your goal is to keep wafer capacity roughly flat and grow gigabytes from technology migration. At what point do you need more fab space to keep that fab capacity roughly flat? Or it is, of course, more layers requires more fab space, and of course, as you shrink DRAM, you also need more fab space as well. So do you have any plans for new fabs? What would be the plan? And how are you thinking about that?
So like you noted, in order to realize the technology transitions, you, of course, do need space in your cleanroom to deploy the tools that are required to implement the advanced technology nodes. So our fabs have had space here in terms of deploying the technology transitions, for example, in Singapore going from 32-layer to 64-layer. And in the past, in Singapore fab for NAND, going from planar to 3D nodes as well. And similarly, cleanroom space is something we look at very carefully for DRAMs as well because, as I just said, I mean, more cleanroom space is needed for technology transitions. So as I said in my prepared remarks, I mean, we do continue to assess the scenarios that are needed for future technology transitions, and I continue to assess our cleanroom space requirements. Fiscal year '18, we are not looking at any new wafer capacity additions. We are not looking at any new -- any meaningful new cleanroom space required to implement our technology transition plans in fiscal year '18. And as I said in my remarks, going beyond that, we continue to assess various scenarios to implement the requirements for technology transitions, both in DRAM as well as in NAND. No plans firmed up yet. And as and when we look at it, we will share these things. Remember, any time you build a new cleanroom, it takes several months to build, construct the building. And it takes a few months then to roll in equipment into the new cleanroom and to deploy the equipment, qualify it and build products. So these are things that are to be looked at for the longer-term horizon, and we are evaluating those scenarios.
Thank you. And this concludes today's question-and-answer session. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.