Thanks for taking my question. Lisa, I'm hoping that you can help me understand the dynamic of desktop microprocessors ramping down in front of the Ryzen ramp. My understanding was that Ryzen was the higher-end SKU that comped against the Core i5 or Core i7, which is above where the existing microprocessors competed in the stack.
So I'm wondering if we should think about Ryzen either cannibalizing the existing desktop microprocessors at a higher ASP or are you kind of ramping down the lower end? Or should we think about Ryzen layering on top of the existing lower-end desktop microprocessors? Thanks.
Yes, absolutely, Mark. Thanks for the question. So look, you are absolutely right. Ryzen is really a high-end desktop product. And I think the comment was really around our overall channel inventories in desktop, so we wanted to ensure a very smooth transition.
No question that Ryzen will layer on top, competing well in the Core i7, Core i5 range. But we also will eventually see a full lineup of Ryzen throughout the desktop portfolio.
Okay, that's helpful. Thank you. And a follow-up, if I may. Is it fair to assume that as Ryzen ramps into the enthusiast stack that you would expect to see attach rates of AMD graphics cards also -- I guess I would expect to see higher attach rate of AMD GPUs with the Ryzen. Is that fair?
Yes, if you look at our product lineup in the first half of the year, I think we have Ryzen launching in early March, and then we will have Vega, our enthusiast GPU, launching in the second quarter. And so as we go through the year, I think we are quite pleased with the performance that we are seeing on both of those products.
And so we should see Ryzen doing very well in the high end as well as Vega. And by nature, since both of those high-end markets are markets that we don't have significant presence today, there will be an opportunity to both gain share as well as increase attach rates in those markets.
All right. Very helpful, thank you very much.
Matt Ramsay, Canaccord Genuity.
Lisa, since we understand that Ryzen launching here in March is going to lead into relatively the same core that these -- the server microprocessor that launches in the second quarter, maybe you can give us a little bit of update on timing to the specifics that you can on the server launch. And specific, what segments of that market, maybe in terms of, I don't know, application segments or percentage of the server TAM, that you might be going after in the first several quarters after you launch the server product. Thanks.
Sure, absolutely, Matt. So as you stated, Ryzen and "Naples" share the same core, the same CPU core, which is our Zen core. Our performance on that core has done very well. We've actually met or exceeded our expectations.
So Ryzen will launch in early March. "Naples" will launch in the second quarter. We have made very good progress, actually, in the last few months with customers really testing the performance capability on their own software and their own application workload, so we feel good about where the product is positioned.
We expect that the key workload - ""Naples"" is really has broad applicability in the server market, but we are especially targeting workloads that will benefit from more threads, higher memory, as well as I/O bound applications. So we expect cloud, Big Data applications, as well as traditional enterprise. And our focus is both with OEMs as well as ODMs to ensure that we have a strong ecosystem ready for that launch.
Great, thank you. And then a couple follow-ups for Devinder, if I could. I noticed that quite a big ramp year over year in growth in the computing and graphics segment, but it's still a slight operating loss on the P&L.
Maybe you could talk through maybe as the new product launches and the GPU and CPU segments of the year, how do you think about gross margin in that computing and graphics segments and getting that back to profitability. And then quickly, I think you guys guided to $50 million in THATIC IP revenue. Any help about how that is distributed through the year would be really helpful. Thank you.
Yes, let me cover the second one first on the THATIC IP licensing gain. You know, we had $88 million of that in 2016. As you observed, we guided $50 million in 2017. It is really dependent upon milestone deliveries, but I can share with you that based on tracking to those milestones, where we expect to recognize approximately half of that, call it $25 million, in Q1 of 2017.
And then as far as the second question, on the segment, Computing and Graphics: yes, very good progress I think year over year and quarter over quarter. We are very pleased with that. The segment loss has gone down significantly from Q4 2015, where we were about $100 million, so about $20 million.
And with the new products that are coming up, in particular, the Ryzen product we just talked about, with better gross margins and other products in the graphics space, we expect to continue to make progress in that segment, and reduce the losses and get back to profitability.
Yes, Matt, and if I can just add to that. I think the key for the computing and graphics segment is our participation at the higher end of the market for both CPUs and GPUs. And as we do that, the margin expansion as well as the revenue growth opportunity are critical to get that business to profitability.
All right, thank you.
Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks for taking my question. Good job on the execution. My first question, Lisa, is on the gaming cycle. Because it seems like we have had a number of good years. So what is your sense of where we are in that cycle?
And just near term, what is your perspective on GPU channel inventory? And how you are making sure the channel is not overstocked as you go into your next-generation product cycle?
Yes, absolutely Vivek. So on the console market, I think you are right. I think the last few years have been very good from a console cycle standpoint. We finished 2016 with both units and revenue up.
As we going to 2017, this is going to be the fifth year of the cycle. So normally, if you look at historicals, it would say that hardware sales might be down. This cycle is a bit different with both the PlayStation 4 Pro that launched a couple quarters ago and then the Scorpio -- Microsoft Scorpio that will launch later this year.
So we will need to see how they do through the year. But I think from our standpoint, the console business has been a strong business performer for us and we are pleased with that.
Relative to the GPU market, we were very pleased with the performance in Q4 and actually throughout 2016. We got both nice desktop channel as well as notebook acceleration as we went through the year.
In terms of channel inventory levels, actually they looked quite normal. I would say we drained a little bit of inventory in Q4. We would expect a seasonal slowdown as we go into Q1 ahead of our product launches, but nothing unusual in the channel inventory on the GPU side.
Got it. Very helpful. And as my follow-up, if you compare AMD versus your top two competitors, Intel and Nvidia, what are the biggest gaps? Because it seems like you are making good progress on the hardware side with a number of new product launches. What about software? How soon do you think you can close the gap there? Thank you.
Yes. So in terms of our strategy, I think on both the CPU and the GPU side, we have been on a fairly deliberate path to ensure that we got to a very competitive roadmap. So on the CPU side with Ryzen and "Naples", we believe we will be quite competitive. On the GPU side, as we launch Vega, we will have a full stack top to bottom with new hardware.
We continue to invest in software, and our approach to software is really around open source and using the ecosystem and using the community and focused on the new APIs. So in gaming, we are very focused on DX12 and Vulcan.
And on the professional graphics and on the GPU server side, really using our GPUOpen. So we will continue to invest in software; no question that that is really critical for the graphics market. But we feel we are making good progress.
Thank you.
Stacy Rasgon, Bernstein Research.
Thanks for taking my questions. First on the gross margins, I was a little surprised, given the fairly powerful mix shift between computing and EESC that you had, that they weren't higher. In fact, they came in about 20 basis points below guidance. Could you elaborate on the drivers in the quarter and the drivers going forward into next quarter which we will -- what we should expect.
I think Stacy -- good question. It is basically the product mix of it in the quarter. Q4 -- if you look at Q4 in particular, we were at 31% gross margin. Q2 and Q3 and Q4, it stepped up to 32%. In Q1, we are guiding at 33%, but really it's a function of the product mix.
And you can recall that if you are talking about Q4, this is ahead of launching the products we just talked about in terms of Ryzen, which we expect to be shipping in the early March time frame.
Got it, thanks. For my follow-up, I know you talked about EESC being seasonally down and we are expecting it to be down, but how did it stack up actually versus your expectations overall? Why was there such a big deceleration year over year versus Q3, where you went from kind of up 31% year over year to up 4%?
Yes, actually, Stacy, it was very much in line with our expectations. If you look at our Q3, our Q3 was actually very strong, and that was the quarter where there were significant builds ahead of the holiday launches.
So when you look at the console cycle in general, they tend to build really for holiday. And so July, August, September, October are big build months, November is like half a month, and then it decelerates in December. So it was not unexpected and actually performed in line with our expectations.
So why was the build so strong in Q3 than relative? Was that - year-over-year. Was that just like the PlayStation Pro or was there something else going on in Q3 that took it up so much year over year versus Q4?
Yes, it was new product. And if you looked, in addition to the PS4 Pro, they also -- both console manufactures had new systems that they launched in that time frame as well.
Got it. Thank you, guys.
Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank.
Thanks for letting me ask a question. Lisa, one for you or Devinder. For the first quarter, and then perhaps more importantly for the full year, can you just talk a little bit about the dynamics between your two segments?
You guide down 11% for the first quarter, which is above or below that number. And then how does mix change throughout the year, as you have a bunch of new products launching on one side of the equation, but perhaps not as many on the EESC side.
Yes, sure, Ross. So for Q1, I think if you look at the -- overall, the guidance sequentially down 11%, you would expect that the semi-custom business should be down more than that. And you have seen that in our numbers the past couple of years, so it is behaving as it normally would.
Sequentially, you would expect that the Computing and Graphics segment would be better than seasonal, given that we will have one month of Ryzen in the market. On a year-over-year basis, I would say the computing graphics business is where you are seeing the majority of the growth as we go into Q1 with both GPU as well as Ryzen driving that growth.
As we go forward in the year, I think the expectations are that the product launches tend to be faster in the CG segment. In other words, from launch to revenue ramp is faster because it's more consumer-based. So as we launch Ryzen in first quarter and Vega in second quarter, but then the notebook and embedded in the second half, you would expect to see that reflected.
On the EESC side of the business, we do have our Microsoft Scorpio design win that will ramp in the year. That's an important one from the semi-custom side. And we will see "Naples" ramp as well, albeit server will tend to be a little bit slower from design win to revenue ramp. We would expect some contribution in the second half of the year.
Great, thanks. And then for my follow-up one, perhaps for either of you again, how do we think about the OpEx side of things as we go through the year? And I know you purposely didn't guide to it in your 2017 as a whole, but conceptually when you are launching a bunch of new products, is it fair to assume that the SG&A side of things to support those launches increases? Any sort of color you can give about your philosophy on OpEx will be helpful.
Yes, I think our philosophy, first of all, is to be very disciplined about managing the OpEx. We did that, as you saw, in the 2014/2015 time frame. In 2016, we made some very targeted investments to products, which is -- with the launches that are happening in 2017, I would say they are going to pay off in terms of all the products we have on track to launch in 2017.
We have invested in software. We have got obviously some go-to-market expenses as we get into 2017. But I would say that you see our guidance for Q1 2017 at $360 million. So you will see a trend of continuing investment in product roadmap, new product launches, software.
R&D, if you look at it on a year-on-year basis, is up actually close to $50 million. And SG&A was down, even though we were essentially flat on OpEx 2015 to 2016. And I think as you look at 2017, we will continue to stay lean in SG&A and prioritize investments in R&D for the go-forward execution of our plans going into future years.
Great, thank you.
Chris Rolland, Susquehanna International Group.
On the server side, you guys talked about "Naples". And Lisa, you mentioned more threads, higher memory, and I/O. With these products, do you anticipate taking more share in the cloud? Or how do you think you are going to fare versus enterprise storage comms, high performance? Is it going to be a lot more cloud-centric?
Chris, the great thing about "Naples" is it really is a general-purpose product, so we will play in all of those segments. I think the cloud tends to move a bit faster in terms of just, again, from design win to revenue. So we certainly are very focused in the cloud, but I'm also quite enthusiastic about our opportunities in traditional enterprise as well as some of the storage and networking spaces.
Okay, great. And then with, let's say, Summit Ridge and Vega and "Naples" all coming online here, can you guys talk about where these products -- the gross margins are versus either your corporate average or a comparable product now? And if things ramp the way you expect them to, when might you hit the low end of your long-term gross margin range?
So maybe, Chris, I will start and Devinder can add. Clearly you mentioned some of the key products that are margin drivers for us. So Ryzen in high-end desktop, our server CPUs, server GPUs, professional graphics are all north of the corporate average. We still have game consoles, which will be a significant piece of our business that will be less than corporate average.
So our expectation is that we will make progress with margins as we ramp these products. Relative to when we will hit the long-term guidance, I think we will defer that perhaps to our analyst day and note that the target is still to be within the 36% to 40% range on a long-term model.
Thanks so much and great quarter.
Blayne Curtis, Barclays.
This is Chris Hemmelgarn on for Blayne. Thanks for very much for letting us on to ask a question, and congrats on the good quarter and guidance.
I guess first of all, a number of questions have touched on this, but with Ryzen launching and then Vega in Q2, you presumably see some pretty big channel fill in Q1 and into Q2. Could you just talk about how you see that impacting seasonality through the rest of the year. Q3, Q4 are normally bigger quarters for PC sales, but you got big product launches in the first half.
Yes, we're certainly looking forward to those product launches. And the way we view it is yes, there's some bit of channel fill, but I think there's also some pent-up demand for really great products in the gaming space. Both Ryzen and Vega are targeted at those enthusiast gamers. So certainly we do expect -- normal seasonality would say that the second half would be stronger.
Note that on Ryzen, we are starting first in the channel and with system integrators, and then OEMs will launch shortly thereafter. So you would expect a stage launch of our partners.
That's very helpful, Lisa, thanks. And then just as a follow-up, so you have announced your first non-game console semi-custom win launching this year. As that business has matured, can you talk how you see further opportunities to grow outside of the core game console market there?
Yes, so we have talked about three design wins and those are in progress now. In terms of ongoing engagements, we have a nice pipeline. We continue to view semi-custom as a strategic way for us to utilize our IP in our design capability. And so we will continue to view that is one of our go-to-markets for the IP that we are developing. And we will talk more about the semi-custom opportunities as we go forward.
John Pitzer, Credit Suisse.
Good afternoon, guys. Lisa, congratulations on the strong results for 2016. I guess I wanted to go back with my first question to the OpEx line. If you just look at total dollars spent, you are spending well below your two main competitors.
And I'm just kind of curious. As revenue growth starts to reemerge in the model, how should you think about -- or how should we think about OpEx growth relative to revenue growth? Is there a target that you can give us that you'd like OpEx to grow half as fast as revenue?
Or are you at a point now where you see a lot of incremental investments that are worth doing that might have OpEx growth that are growing faster than that? Any guidance there would be helpful.
Yes, certainly, John. Look, I think we have shown that we can be very disciplined with OpEx, and I think we will ensure that -- OpEx will certainly not grow faster than revenue. So that won't happen.
I think the opportunity for leverage does exist longer term in our model, but in the short term, I am very focused on ensuring that we execute our product roadmap really, really well. And so this year, it is about our product launches, making sure that we have the right software investments and go-to-market.
We are going to see improvement in the financial performance as a result of the margin expansion. And we'll look to find leverage on the OpEx line I think in the longer term as we continue to make progress. But again, we will be very disciplined on the OpEx line.
That's helpful, Lisa. And then I guess as my second question, just going back on the gross margin for Ryzen and Vega. I guess can you help me understand, just given where in the stack those two parts will compete, why they shouldn't have gross margins that are more comparable to your two closest peers. Is that kind of the internal target or is that how we should be thinking about it? Or any guidance there would be helpful.
Yes, so I think for the high-end parts, both Ryzen and Vega, and "Naples", frankly, we should expect that they are well above our corporate average in terms of margin. As it relates to our competitors, I think that's a harder question, but our goal is to make sure that we have very competitive product on a pure performance basis. And so that has been the goal, and that is certainly how we are viewing it.
But we will also have some opportunity for price-performance leverage as we gain share in the market. So I think where we are positioning the products is the right place and the right balance between revenue growth and margin. And we will certainly look for every opportunity to improve our margins over time.
Thank you, guys.
Joe Moore, Morgan Stanley.
I guess the question I get most frequently is Zen looks pretty exciting in 2017, but you are competing with Intel, who has got 10-nanometer product coming. How do we think about this on a multiyear basis, Zen as a springboard to compete with them? And anything you can share in terms of the product roadmap and the longer-term competitiveness of these products you are introducing now?
Sure, Joe. So look, we do think Zen is very, very competitive for where we are. In terms of our longer-term roadmap, I think, as with anything for top OEM customers, especially server data center customers, they are investing in a roadmap. So they are not just buying a point product. And we have a multigenerational roadmap that we are working on, including the Zen 2 and the Zen 3 follow-on.
From our standpoint, process technology, we ramped 16-nanometer and 14-nanometer really well last year and into this year. We are actually in the process of developing now in 7-nanometer and we think the 7-nanometer foundry roadmaps are available, are very competitive, and will ensure that we have a strong multigenerational roadmap.
Great, thank you very much.
Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho and Company.
Thanks, guys. Sorry to beat upon this, but when you look at the Radeon Instinct GPUs and the Vega architecture in 2Q 2017 and first half 2017 here, are the gross margins more in the 40% to 60% range as they go into data center versus what your existing margins are?
No, Vijay, I think it's fair to say that both professional graphics and our Radeon Instinct line are higher than normal the GPU products -- the consumer GPU products in terms of margin. And now, we view the data center GPUs as a great growth opportunity for us. And so it's a key area of focus.
Got it. And you mentioned GPUs seeing traction in multi-threaded applications. And so with that strength, there especially with [deplaning exit], what are your expectations for growth in that market if you were to -- obviously you are going from zero. But incrementally, what should that drive for -- in revenues for AMD? Thanks.
Yes. So again, we view GPU servers as a very good growth opportunity for us. We are starting from a small base, but we have had some really good engagement with cloud customers. And we had some meaningful revenue in the second half of 2016, and we expect it to be a growth driver for us into 2017 and beyond.
Kevin Cassidy, Stifel.
Thanks for taking my question. On your Zen product lineup, you will have an APU in the second half of the year. And what kind of GPU does that have on it?
Yes, Kevin, we will have an APU, we call it Raven Ridge, in the second half of the year off of the Zen processor core. And we haven't announced details of the graphics just yet.
Okay. Will that be targeted for both desktop and notebook?
Yes, it will be. But it's a very strong notebook part when you think about the high-end notebooks, two-in-ones and those types of things. But yes, it can also be used in desktop.
Okay, thank you.
Ambrish Srivastava, BMO.
I had a question on inventory, Devinder. You did give us the reason for why the inventory is higher. But what I'm trying to understand is why the delta between the guidance that you had given, which was supposed to be in the $660 million amount, which you guided to.
Was there a change in what you were expecting for the roadmap? Where there uncertainties that you had guided to $660 million, and now you came up to the number that you reported on the fourth quarter? Thank you.
Yes, I think it's fair to say that from the time I gave the guidance, $660 million coming into $750 million, that there were some changes, but let me explain.
First of all, it was higher than anticipated due to product ramps, product mix, and also our higher expected revenue in the first half of 2017. We also had an opportunity to purchase some inventory in a tight PC supply environment at commercially favorable terms. And we took the opportunity to go ahead and purchase the inventory, given what we see from a revenue standpoint for the first half of 2017.
Okay, thank you.
Thank you. We've reached the end of our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any further or closing comments.
Lisa, anyone? Thank you very much. Thank you, operator. Thank you, everyone, for joining us on our call today. We look forward to speaking with you throughout the quarter. Thank you.
Thank you. That does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your line at this time and have a wonderful day. We thank you for your participation today.