Our first question comes from Ross Seymore with Deutsche Bank.
BK, a longer-term one for you. You rattled off a number of AI advancements that Intel is having, whether it be on the Nervana side or the Stratix side. Can you talk a little bit about the competitive environment in there? You mentioned that it's not going to be one size fit all -- fits all. But if you could give a little bit of how Intel does have an advantage versus some of the early movers in that space? And then perhaps more importantly, when will we, externally as investors, be able to start to see the financial benefits of these new products?
Sure, Ross. So let's talk about this. We can kind of break this down. So first, we are already seeing the benefits of AI in that number -- as I said, we lead in inference, which is the actual application of artificial intelligence, and we're continuing to really grow in that space. I think AI, if you take look at, in general, machine learning, it's the smallest segment or workload, if you look at the data center, but the fastest growing. So you're going to see it continue to become a bigger and bigger portion of our business. You're seeing the effects in our numbers already around Xeon, Xeon Scalable, the FPGAs. We talked about Microsoft Brainwave's launch that's occurring. So those products, you're going to see, I'll call those more of our traditional products. And also at the lower end outside the data center, things like Movidius and now Mobileye, you're seeing those hit our P&L as well real-time now as we speak. The other products like Nervana, you'll start to see really more towards the back end probably of 2018 from a P&L perspective. If you take a look at Nervana, it actually -- we get our first silicon out. It will be handed out as test silicons. We have a yearly cadence of products. And so I expect the first instantiations to be more people, figuring out how to use it. It won't be a big impact. But as we go through next year and move on beyond that and get the second generation and beyond, that will grow, we believe, quite considerably. And then products like Loihi, which is our neuromorphic, are same thing. That part we put out so far is really a chip for people to begin to use and learn how to program with neuromorphic, which is a very different type of machine learning. It lets you learn at hundreds of times faster rate than traditional, I'll say, GPUs and CPUs, especially around visual learning. Those as well, you'll start to see next -- late next year and beyond, as people really begin to learn how to program with these. So seeing it already and those newer products, I really think late '18 and beyond before they really start to hit P&Ls.
Great. And then the follow-up question I had was actually for Bob, and it's on the OpEx side. And congrats on the great operating leverage in the quarter. As we think about the way you can get that operating leverage in the past, Intel seems to have focused mainly on keeping the OpEx relatively flat, and then revenue growth driving that leverage. But in the quarter and then the guide that you just delivered, it looks like OpEx is down about 6% year-over-year. Conceptually, as we go into the next couple of years, how do you think investors should think about the balance of delivering that cadence up to the 30% mark that you're looking for over the next couple of years? Is it more revenue growth? Or you are you indeed going to be cutting the absolute level of OpEx?
Yes, Ross, great question. First, as you mentioned, we had great progress in the third quarter. We kind of started the year at a spending level which was a little over 35% of revenue. And we came into 2017 saying that we would get that down to roughly 34%. Reflected in our guidance is it will be closer to 33%. So we're delivering well ahead of our expectations, which have been a function of the 2 things you highlighted: one, much stronger growth; and two, lower spending levels. And those lower spending levels from the first half of this year to the second half are a function of continuing to look at every dollar that we spend, whether it's R&D, whether it sales and marketing, or whether it's G&A and making sure that those dollars are allocated towards the biggest growth opportunities. And we're not to redeploy that capital or to get it out of the ecosystem. So our first half to second half spend levels will be down roughly $700 million on a business that will be roughly $2.5 billion bigger in the second half versus the first half. So we're making great progress and making real trade-offs on our spending levels and getting the benefit of stronger growth. And we expect the combination of those 2 to continue as we go forward.
Our next question is from Stacy Rasgon with Bernstein.
First, I wanted to ask a little bit about the revenue drivers, revenue upside for the year and I guess margin up for 3 quarters. But it continues to look to be the same trend, almost entirely from PC and memory. In the meantime, I mean this is, in your words, your biggest server refresh in a decade, and we're not seeing any upside. We're doing 7% year-over-year pretty much for the full year, which I guess I would classify as barely high single digit. We're not really seeing meaningful ASP increases from mix as Purley. I was wondering if you could just kind of give us a view on, I guess, your expectations for data center, where it's coming in, why we're not seeing more upside from the Purley ramp versus what we've seen from prior platform introductions, and whether or not 7% actually would qualify as high single digits by your definition.
So I'll start and Bob can jump in, Stacy. First, because you've kind of got a couple of questions in there, the way I would tell you is that the Purley ramp has just really started. It starts with the big comm service providers. You saw Google talk about it a couple of weeks ago. You saw Microsoft talk about it earlier this week. Those ramps are just beginning. I talked about the 200 design wins or design-ins at customers. Those are starting to come out. So we are really early. These ramps, remember because we have to -- it will go through the cloud service providers and then the Tier 2 cloud service provider, then on into comms and eventually into enterprise as well. This is going to be -- take a year or more. So it's -- I think it's early to make this judgment. The ramp's right within the range we predicted it to be from a ramp of that product. Your second part of your question is 7% high single digits. I will just make it simple and say, look, if you look, mathematically, I think it would meet a minima of high single digits, but it's certainly not necessarily where we're targeting to get to, but it's a high single-digit number. I'm not going to -- the math doesn't lie.
Just to maybe add a little bit, I think the first part of your question, overall growth for the year relative to the expectations back in January, revenue will be up $2.5 billion. Obviously, PC is a significant part of that. Memory is growing faster. IoT is growing faster. PSG and data center -- PSG faster in the second half versus the first half, and DCG in line with our full year outlook at the beginning of the year to be high single digits. So real good strength on clients, on memory, on IoT and in line with the other businesses. The other thing I would just offer to -- follow up on Brian's commentary on DCG growth -- maybe 2 things. One, we started out at 6% in Q1. We were at 9% in Q2. We're at 7% in Q3 off a real tough comp last year of double-digit growth in the third quarter. So I would say from a top line perspective, we're right in line with kind of the guide that we gave at the end of the year. And secondly and as importantly, our operating margins has continued to grow significantly quarter-on-quarter through the course of the year, with 46% operating margins in the third quarter. And we told you early on despite a relatively slow start, we expect that operating margin for DCG to be above 40% for the year, and we're well on track to hit that important metric as well. So 9 months through the year, a great start to the year for us, and DCG in line with our expectations and building momentum as we exit the year.
Did you have a follow-up, Stacy?
I do. I want to ask about gross margins really quick. So revenue was up 0.6%. I guess, year-over-year, excluding McAfee. Gross margins are down like 90 bps year-over-year. I was wondering -- I was hoping you could give us some color on the drivers of that shift. And in particular, how should we think about the trajectory exiting the year into 2018, puts and takes on gross margins as we go into next year and given what we've seen this year?
Yes. On your first part, we laid out for the year 63% gross margins, and we're pretty much in line with that throughout the first -- in the first 9 months. And our outlook for Q4 is another 63%. So in line with kind of full year outlook, which is in the high end of our historical guide range. So we feel pretty good about where we are. And for the dynamics underneath the covers, the trends have been very consistent, volume leverage with good scale going through the fabs. ASPs modestly better, much better in the first half on easier comps, slightly better in the second half on tougher comps. Unit costs continues to come down. The ramp costs associated with 10-nanometer are lower. And offsetting those, you really have 3 things going on. One, we have a high growth in our adjacent businesses, memory and modem, that weigh on -- that are a big contributor to improved earnings, but they weigh on our gross margin. Secondly, we have higher engineering samples in the -- as we go into the fourth quarter. And third, the co-marketing change that we -- that I mentioned in the prepared remarks, Stacy, that has no impact in operating income, but a modest impact on gross margin, but offset by lower spending levels. So you take those all into account, and they have delivered solid Q3 dynamics, solid Q4 outlook. And the one change between Q3 and Q4 is primarily attributable to the mix of the higher growth adjacency businesses. Those trends and those dynamics, we'll talk much more about 2018 in January, but those trends have been fairly consistent for the last 4 quarters.
Our next question is from Blayne Curtis with Barclays.
Bob, I just wanted to go back to some of the comments you made. In DCG, op margin was up a ton. It's actually above your kind of full year. So just kind of curious where those cuts came from. And then as you look forward, I know you're not going to forecast for next year. But is there any reason why the spending will go up and down from here?
Yes. The first half gross margin -- I should say operating margins were lower, second half much stronger. Fundamentally, it's less about cuts, to be honest with you. It's more about continuing to grow the top line, continuing to get ASP improvements or compensated for the performance that we're delivering; modestly -- and modestly lower unit costs. So the combination of those 3 are getting really good leverage and allow us to expand operating margins while we continue to invest in obviously Xeon, but also in artificial intelligence. So that's what's driven the kind of first half to second half dynamics. And as I indicated, we kind of started out the year saying that we were highly confident we'd be above 40 for the year. And that's kind of how it's played out during the course of the year.
Great. And then I wanted to go back to a question on AI and inference. Brian, I was wondering if you just comment on today -- I think you said it was small. Just curious, out of the cloud spend, how much is inference today? And when you look at future workloads driving server units, where could that be in a couple of years?
Sure. We don't separate out inference. So we -- what we said is simply in the past publicly that AI is -- one of the smallest workloads, but one of the fastest growing. We haven't broken out. We don't -- beyond just saying there's -- here's what cloud is growing at and here's what comms and here's what enterprises, we don't break out by workloads. And there's a variety of reasons for that. Part of it is it's sometimes hard. The mixture of what -- when somebody goes out and build a rack, what is it going into, how much of its workload is really being used by AI is -- anybody who tells you exactly what that number is, is just wrong, to be honest with you. So it's hard for us to say with precision, x percent of our units went into AI workloads, because it's rare that a rack is purely AI except for in rare cases. But we know that's it's small, despite the type of interactions we have, but also fast growing and one of the biggest areas of interest.
Our next question is from John Pitzer with Crédit Suisse.
Bob, maybe I can just ask Blayne's DCG op margin question a little bit differently. In the calendar third quarter, you actually I think had revenue up about $500 million sequentially in that business roughly, and operating profits grew by about $600 million sequentially. Can you just help us understand what drove that dynamic? Where there any onetimes? And just given how strong the operating margin is, I know you've reaffirmed for the full year. But is the Q3 level the new sort of norm we should start basing operating profit off of? Or was there something specific in Q3 that drove the op margin leverage above 100% sequentially?
No onetimers. It's in one sense, John, it's no real surprises for us. We anticipated growing throughout the year. We anticipated higher ASPs, i.e., sequentially ASPs being a little bit stronger, and that would drive incremental operating income. And some of the benefits, just a lower overall G&A spending for the company is benefiting all the different P&Ls that G&A is actually lower. So that's what's really been driving the improvement sequentially. And as you can tell from our full year guide, there'll be more of the same in Q4 relative to Q3. And then we'll, in terms of implications going forward, we got a great business. We've redefined the role we play in the data center business to be a not high 90% share player, but a 30% share player with lots of room to grow. And we expect that to be a continued important source of growth, both top and bottom line for the company. The specifics around that, we'll talk more about it in January.
That's helpful. Maybe for my follow-up for Brian, Brian, I know this is not a big part of your growth strategy going forward. But as you mentioned in your prepared comments, CCG is still very important to scale advantages, to profitability, to free cash flow, to your ability to invest in growth markets. And that's been a business that's been sort of remarkably stable over the last 4 or 5 quarters. It's grown over the last couple of years, in part because we've had relatively easy compares in the PC market. So I'm kind of curious as you think about this business over the next, call it 4 to 8 quarters, how are you guys thinking about the corporate upgrade cycle or refresh cycle on PCs, the consumer refresh cycle, the gaming market, and I guess importantly, the modem business, which is becoming a bigger and bigger part of this business over time? Do you think you can still keep this business sort of on a flat growth trajectory? Or how are you thinking about it?
Sure. So you've captured that quite well, right? Let's just talk about there -- we can talk about it from a unit standpoint and then we can talk about it from how has our business done. From a unit standpoint, the decline has certainly slowed down, right? We -- if you go back a year or 2 ago, we were high single digits to low teens declines at times year-over-year from a unit basis. And that slowed into the low single digits that we're seeing today, but we still are seeing a decline on a unit level. And I always remind people, we've taken probably something like 25% of the annual units out of this business, yet grown in that time frame the profitability of that business significantly. So that I think just talks about both the great execution in products and segmentation strategy and just the leadership that, that team, at first with Navin Shenoy and now with Greg Bryant, have really delivered to the company. So our view is, John, that if you take a long-term view, we see the pattern kind of stabilizing at about where it is. I think we'll come in here, and there'll be quarters when the units are up slightly, and there'll be quarters when the units are down a little more slightly. But when we looked at it over the long haul, they're probably going to be down, those low single digits. But we also see segments that are growing that are very performance-focused, which allow us opportunities. So you talked about gaming, 2-in-1 devices, thin and light, the Ultrabook, as we like to think about it from the old. Those products are continuing to see growth actually. And they are pushing that record Core i5, i7. They're pushing the desire for Core i9, which is a new product that we introduced, right? Those are what's driving the segmentation, the ASP uplift and the increased profitability. We think to some level, that trend will continue. How long, I -- I'm not going to be that good of a prognosticator, but certainly for the near-term future, we don't see this trend shifting very much.
And then Brian, just on the modem side, in your prepared comments, I think you said it was up 37% year-over-year. What's the sustainability of that business and your ability to kind of continue to grow that business through penetration?
Yes. I'm excited about the modem business. We -- we've I think really gotten a team together that is world-class. We believe we now are on a yearly cadence of world-class modems, which is really critical. That's a big hurdle to get that technology to where you can reliably put out a yearly cadence, a world-class modem. We believe we're there now. We continue to increase the profitability or the efficiency of that organization, which we've always talked about in the past, and that's continued. So we think we can continue to both drive the technology and continue to grow that business.
Our next question is from Romit Shah with Nomura.
Great EPS growth. I -- Bob, I think some of us who are more on the optimistic side definitely see a path to $4 of EPS, which makes look -- makes Intel look compelling. I think some of the pushback, though, has been among value investors who look at free cash flow. In this year for example, even with the equity gains, it looks like free cash flow is tracking down. So I know that this is an investment year, but how should people be thinking about free cash flow growth relative to EPS growth next year and maybe even 2019 as well?
Yes, the -- first in 2017, people ought to be thinking about free cash flow growth being $1.5 billion to $2 billion higher than what we -- what was primarily reflected in our guidance. Because we're saying that our current forecast is -- will be much better than kind of where we started the year. And that improvement is really a function of 3 things: one, earnings growth, more operating earnings growth as opposed to the ICAP gains, but real solid operating earnings growth; secondly, we reduced our CapEx outlook for the year from $12 billion to $11.5 billion this year; and third, we -- the long-term agreements that we signed in the year. One of the benefits on what we're trying to do is really match our net capital deployed in memory in conjunction with demand from strategic clients and partners, which has the effect of reducing the impact of the memory capital intensity on the free cash flows of the business that makes sense for our customers and makes sense for us. So we'll continue to look for those opportunities. The biggest gap between our earnings performance and our free cash flow performance has been the higher capital associated with growth, number one, but in particular, memory. And we're really looking for opportunities to reduce our net capital deployed into memory, which in turn will grow free cash flow over time, just closer and closer to our EPS growth.
And I guess along those lines, Brian, can you just give us an update on how you're thinking about CapEx at these levels and going forward?
Sure. What -- I think in our statements and in the release, we showed you that we actually lowered CapEx to -- by about $500 million for this year. We've talked about CapEx and thinking about it kind of being in this range. I don't think we have anything else to say about it. It's pretty close. Right now, we're just focused on the execution into Q4 and prepping for our views into 2018. So I don't want to have any other discussion on CapEx until we get to the January time frame right now for 2018.
Our next question is from Harlan Sur with JPMorgan.
On the ASP trend in DCG was up 2% year-over-year, but it can be skewed by mix. So if we look at the 4 subsegments, cloud, comm service provider, enterprise, adjacencies, if you just look at those buckets as a silo as you ramp Skylake, did ASPs move higher in all of those subsegments? I'm just trying to get a sense for how broad-based the value capture was.
Yes, I would just, without giving you all the specifics of ASPs by segment, I would just say the biggest driver of ASP improvement is really incremental performance. So as we continue to transition -- we're still transitioning Haswell to Broadwell, which all else equal, there is positive ASP implications as we transition to Xeon Scalable and deliver higher performance. That growing mix of higher performance products is the single biggest contributor to ASP. We're still in the early days, as Brian mentioned in Xeon Scalable, but that is a higher performance product. And we would expect that will share in the benefits of high performance for our clients with higher ASPs, but that's the biggest dynamic.
Great. And the team has talked about accelerating the server road maps to be more closely aligned with the cadence of manufacturing technology migrations, I believe starting with the 10-nanometer nodes. Can you guys just give us an update there?
Yes, think of it, so first, absolutely, you're right that we are going to move much more of our focus towards data center products coming first. It's not going to be the early part of the 10-nanometer, though. It just -- you got to look at the design cycles. And you make a decision like that, even you make it last year. You'll start to see the effect of the back end of 10-nanometers, and you'll really see it affect, 7-nanometers. So not these early products on 10, no. They were already in the hopper when we made that move.
And our last question comes from Matthew Ramsay with Canaccord Genuity.
Bob, I wouldn't -- I wanted to ask a little bit about G&A leverage. You talked about in the script and in some of the Q&A here, some changes to the co-marketing programs and the like going forward in both the PC and the data center business. Is there any way you could maybe bound for us the size of those and their contributions to what the run rate has been of overall OpEx, and what kind of opportunities there are potentially to further restructure those going forward?
Yes, just on the co-marketing program in particular, this is really what we're trying to do is retain the value of the Intel Inside brand, but also to be more flexible and to kind of align our spending in conjunction with our customers -- more tailored programs by customer to drive more efficient demand. That's the intent of what we're trying to accomplish. And we're pretty excited about the change. The quantification of that strategy, in essence in the third quarter, was roughly $200 million that, in essence, shifted from spending to contra revenue. So no impact on operating income dollars, but roughly $200 million lower revenue, $200 million lower spending. And we expect that to be modestly higher as we go into the fourth quarter. So again, more effective and efficient way to spend our marketing dollars in conjunction with tailoring programs for -- with the OEMs. That drives a change in the geography of how those dollars were reflected in our P&L, but doesn't really impact our operating income.
That's really helpful. And then as a follow-up, Brian, in automotive space, I think you mentioned 14 ADAS wins from Mobileye versus 12 of all last year. And that's sort of in the ADAS space, and you have some of your competitors making quite bold announcements about wins towards autonomous driving programs long term. Maybe you could talk about how commitments are being made in ADAS versus autonomous, and then how the acquisition that you've seen so far of Mobileye has maybe pulled some of your computing assets into these conversations for longer term with autonomous?
Sure. That's a great question. So we kind of mentioned that even out of those 14, many of those continue on up into Level 3, Level 4. The Level 5 work that you see out there is pretty far out there. And I'll tell you that's -- there's a lot of just kind of experimental work going on there. If I take a look at though kind of a bigger picture, which is what you're asking is, this whole picture that we've been putting together is, I kind of said in the statement that, individually, these businesses are great. But when you pull these together into one package and you're able to walk into a customer with a complete solution, they're truly world-class and something nobody else can deliver. So you're right, when we go into and we talk to somebody about autonomous driving in general, whether it's Level 2 plus, Level 3, Level 4, Level 5, we bring with us a suite of products, depending on what kind of architecture. And they're -- what we're seeing is different OEMs, different customers thinking about those architectures even differently across that spectrum. Some are thinking, "Well, by Level 5, I think my skills will be up. I want a closed system. I want to have much more of the control of the software." So we have a set of solutions we bring to them there. Some of them want to have more FPGAs for how they bring their software down onto the silicon earlier on. But what we're able to do is bring our modems. We shipped -- and we mentioned it in the release that -- our first automotive modem. So we're able to bring automotive modems all the way through 5G. Most of these car companies are having to build data centers. And not just data centers, centralized data centers, but really a data center kind of architecture that goes all the way out with data and compute at the edge. You're going to want to be able to manipulate and transfer mapping, high-precision mapping to the cars and data back from the cars to change those maps, construction and things like that. So we're building that architecture. And we have the products and the talent to uniquely work with them all through that infrastructure. And then you get out to the car again and we can bring the FPGA, the Mobileye for center fusion or compute. We can put Xeons in there. And so we -- in each one of these discussions, they're all a bit different. They all have multiple phases as you go to 3, 4 and 5 on the levels. And what we're able to do is say you don't just have to take this one solution. This is not the only solution there is. What would you like to do? What best solves your problem in the most cost-effective lower -- lowest power efficient way? How much work do you want us to do in software development versus how much work do you want to own and have IP within your company? And that's changing, as we said, over time. And that's part of also why we're building out that 100-car fleet. Amnon has really has driven a vision that says it's one thing to bring foils to a meeting. It's another thing to bring a car and say now let's go out and drive, and show you how all of these fit together. And so all of that is -- this package that we have is unique, and it's resonating quite well as we walk into the various car OEMs. And I'm out there with them in various modes almost every week, every other week. Amnon's out. We're all talking about a complete package.
Thanks, Brian. Thanks, Matt. And thank you all for joining us today. Operator, please go ahead and wrap up the call.
Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for participating in today's conference. You may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.