Our first question is coming from the line of Mr. Mark Moskowitz of Barclays Capital.
I wanted to see if we could understand more of the guidance, Kelly and Chuck. The revenues are little lighter than we had anticipated. Is that a function of macro factors? Or is that a function more of the shift to the subscription model or maybe there's going to be some disturbance here and there. Clearly, the deferred revenue -- product revenue growth is quite nice, but I was just wondering if there's any sort of puts and takes you could walk us through there. I really appreciate it.
Kelly, why don't you take him through the bridge, and then I'll just make some comments?
Sure. So Mark, when we look at guidance, it's a combination of many factors, right? It starts with our backlog and then orders on them, the funnel. And then yes, definitely, we take into account our transition to more software and subscriptions and how that's impacting it. So when I look at the guidance we just gave, our orders were a little weaker in Q3, which does mean that I'm starting with the lower backlog than anticipated. And then when I'm assuming, when I look at the order strength, we're assuming what we saw in Q3 continues on in Q4. So just to give some color around that. Where we had -- we have been facing headwinds all quarter long with SP and emerging. We saw them get worse this quarter that you saw in the numbers there. I'm expecting that to continue. And then we saw some new kind of macro issues in the areas like Public Sector and the U.S. Fed space and things like that. So I'm assuming that orders in line that we saw in Q3 is going to continue on in Q4. And then finally, we are seeing an impact because you're seeing it go to the balance sheet of this transition that we are just accelerating through to the tune of 1.5 to 2 points. So the combination of those 3 things are driving the guidance into that minus-4 to minus-6 range.
Yes, just -- Mark, a couple of comments on what Kelly just described. I mean, the Public Sector business, particularly in the United States, the federal business is, frankly, it's about 1 point of that guide. It's a pretty significant stall right now with the lack of budget visibility. And when you think about the strategy that we're deploying, the 57% growth in the software and subscription business, if you just go back 8 quarters ago, we had $2 billion on our balance sheet relative to software and subscription. And the first 2 or 3 quarters, we were convincing the teams that, that was the shift we were going to make. And now we have more than doubled that to $4.4 billion, and the growth there is accelerating. So we are very pleased with that transition. And at the same time we deal with all of these challenges, we're also, -- we remain very committed to earnings. We remain very committed to our capital return strategy.
The next question is coming from the line of Ittai Kidron from Oppenheimer.
Chuck, I'm going to take a U-turn this time, actually not ask you about the data center business but rather focus a little bit more on the gross margins. Some of the commentary in your press release talked about some pricing pressures. If you could give us a little bit more color on the guidance and your gross margin assumption into the guidance, how much of that is mix-related and how much of that is pricing?  And if -- any color you could give on the pricing, how much is competitive versus, I don't know, product shifts or something like that, that'll be great.
Thanks, Ittai. So Kelly, let's have the same strategy. You want to go through the math on this and then...
So Ittai, when we look at the drivers of our growth margin, price in Q3 actually has been in the same range that it was pretty much last year as well as last quarter in terms of the price index that we're seeing. So that's in the same range. Again, it's high, but it's in the range. It's not increasing. I would say in terms of the guidance for Q4, we're assuming that. We are also making sure the teams are being very aggressive where they need to be aggressive in areas and then against competitors where we need to be. But overall, the pricing hasn't changed dramatically besides the normal erosion that we see in churned business lines. I'd say, in terms of mix, that hasn't dramatically changed as well, with switching being positive this quarter, that helped a lot. And again, well, the mix isn't changing. There's mix changes with [MBEs] in the guidance going forward but it's nothing dramatic. So I'd say we feel good about being able to continue driving the margins that we have. The only other piece I'll comment on, because we mentioned it before, we are still seeing some cost pressure from the increase in DRAM pricing that was got baked in both our Q3 as well as into Q4. But we've been doing a lot of work, and our supply chain team has done working with our suppliers to make sure we can secure our forward supply at prices that we can plan on. So I think we've pretty much got that boxed in for the guidance.
Next question is coming from James Faucette of Morgan Stanley.
Just a couple of quick follow-up questions to some of the comments that have already been made. Can you talk a little bit about the orders and you mentioned that fed was weak. But when you look at the other areas of weakness, can you talk about, like, what's driving those, et cetera? And I guess, more long term, it continues to be a good deferred revenue growth, and you mentioned the security. What are the priorities that your customers are showing in the security space generally? And what are you able to address now versus where are the things that they're asking for that you think you need to improve on?
Great. Thanks, James. And so we have some order color and then securities. So let me take the order stuff, and then, Kelly, chime in as you'd like. So if we just go around -- sort of go around the globe, let me just highlight what we saw. And I'm just going to tell you what drove the weakness in these areas so you can assume the other pieces of the business were pretty much as expected. In the Americas, it was primarily the U.S. federal -- I mean, there's so much uncertainty around budgets. The U.S. federal business was a significant driver. Mexico, there has been a lot of uncertainty in Mexico, and that was actually down 49% for us year-over-year. So it was -- there's a great deal of uncertainty around the investment landscape there. And then the third element would have been the Service Provider business in the Americas. So those were the things that really drove the orders in the U.S. In Europe, the U.K., the currency issue in the U.K. is real and was very impactful in that business. And then we continue to see pressure in the Middle East relative to oil prices. We also -- obviously, there's been a lot of uncertainty around the geopolitical dynamics, some of which have been clarified recently, obviously. And we did see some strength in some countries there, but the U.K. is a big country for us. And the Middle East, obviously, with the uncertainty around oil prices, continues to be a little bit of a pressure as well. In APJC, we saw Japan and Australia were reasonable. India was solid again. And China, we had tough comps from the SP Video business from a year ago that we talked about. So that's really what we saw from an orders perspective. I think if you look at customer segments, just to give you some color, Enterprise, the challenge was largely driven by Europe. Commercial, the lightness there was driven by Europe. Public Sector, as I said, was U.S. Federal, and SP was fairly consistent. So Kelly, any other comments on that?
Yes.
Just quickly on the securities, since you snuck that one in, too, James. The -- what our customers -- what we see happening in security right now is that as our customers prepare for the next few years and literally adding billions of new connections, we obviously believe that the network is going to become even more relevant than it ever has been. And our customers are going to need -- to deal with that scale, they're going to need significant automation. They're going to need greater insights coming out of their technology infrastructure like the network through analytics. They're going to need security embedded at the network layer because you're going to have to begin to secure the infrastructure the minute these packets hit the wire. So what they're looking for is -- they are looking for an end-to-end architecture now for dealing with security. They're looking for an open architecture that actually allows them to buy the best-of-breed technology, which we have across many elements of what they're trying to do. But they are looking for an architecture, and they're looking for -- to leverage as much of that from the cloud, and which correspondingly turns into the subscription business, as you pointed out. So that's what we see happening there. There's obviously lots of other areas within that architecture that we don't play today where we could, and we continue to assess all of those opportunities.
The next question is coming from Vijay Bhagavath of Deutsche Bank. The next question on queue, coming from Simon (sic) [Simona]  Jankowski of Goldman Sachs.
It's Simona Jankowski. Just a couple of follow-ups. First, if you can clarify in terms of the weakness you saw incrementally in the Service Provider and emerging market theaters. How much of that was related to competition or pricing pressure such as from Huawei versus some of the macro factors you discussed? And then just a quick follow-up on how did your cloud business do this quarter.
So let me comment on the first one, and then, Kelly, maybe you can talk about the cloud business and how we -- I'll talk about both of them but then how we measure that specifically. So the weakness in emerging and SP, I would say, in emerging, I would say it's less. We clearly -- we've been -- we've had competition from several vendors. And clearly, Huawei is a very strong competitor. I don't feel like it has increased significantly in the emerging countries. It's been pretty consistent there, and our teams know how to compete, and we continue to evolve our strategy and bring different tools to help them compete. So I don't -- I wouldn't say that had much to do with it. I think on our overarching cloud business, Simona, we look at that in many, many different ways. So we look at, obviously, our private cloud business, which is made up of the UCS business as well as our data center switching portfolio, which we talked about earlier. Both of those, the UCS business was down 5, as you saw. And then the -- obviously, our next-generation switching portfolio continues to do well, the ACI elements up 42%. And if you're asking about the MSDC guys, which are the web scale cloud guys, it's the same as we were last quarter. These -- we have -- we're engaging with them on an individual basis. We look at the big ones as, frankly, markets of one. We have made great progress with a few of them. Others we're in the early stages, and we have codevelopment opportunities. But I would tell you, we're in very deep discussions with most all of them, and we're looking at very strategic partnerships that scale beyond even just selling infrastructure to them in many cases. So I'm not sure where you're going with cloud. Hopefully one of those answers cover what you're looking for.
Next question on queue is coming from Jess Lubert of Wells Fargo. Your next on queue is coming from Kulbinder Garcha of Credit Suisse Securities.
For Chuck maybe. On the revenue side, I take your points on the macro economy and the weakness in emerging markets.
Kulbinder, could you just speak up just a hair, buddy?
Sorry (foreign language) My question is on revenue growth, I think the drivers of the weak guidance you're talking about. I guess, the broader question is how important is getting this company back to growth? It looks like last year, you did grow. This year, you're probably not going to grow very much, i.e. especially organically. So is there something more transformative have to happen on the M&A front? Do you think this is temporary in nature? I know you're having this headwind of this business transformation, but just the importance of revenue growth to Cisco as a company, if you could comment on that for the long-term.
Yes, Kulbinder, I think that -- when we look to the future right now and you really think about the number of new connections that are going to be added, that our customers will be adding over the coming years and the need for automation, the need for analytics and security, what we have done, and it'll be done -- our solutions that we'll bringing in the space with a combination, to your point, of inorganic capabilities, as we have shown our ability to do, as well as some organic innovation. I've talked to several of you over the last few quarters about the fact that we went in and reallocated a fair amount of our R&D expense last year and over last 18 months. And many of those solutions are targeting these next-generation networks that our customers are going to need to build out to support this new infrastructure. And with a high degree of automation across the network, with a high degree of analytics, with distributed compute capabilities for processing the data at the Edge as well as the security piece. So we have future innovation that will come in that space. We'll also use a combination of inorganic options where we need it. And we believe that as we get into the next generation of the networks that the customers need to build out, that we will be very successful with our capabilities.
The next question is from Jess Lubert of Wells Fargo, you may now begin.
I was hoping you could provide a little more detail regarding the order weakness you're flagging in the North American service provider vertical. Last quarter, if I remember correctly, you suggested orders there were improving a little bit. So I just want to understand the change. To what degree it's a technology issue versus a macro issue, the duration, you think, that's likely to be weak for and if there's if any areas within the vertical that are better or worse, that would be helpful.
Let me just give you a couple of comments, and then Kelly can give us any specifics. As I said 2 quarters back, I think, when we had the negative 10% growth or 12% or whatever it was, 12%, I think.
Yes, (inaudible).
This -- Our entire SP business around the world is driven by very large customers. And so when some number of them have an off quarter, it can affect the business. And I think the Americas would be probably an example of that this quarter as well. And the Mexico business that I discussed is heavily influenced by service providers. And so that's a bit of what we've seen. We had some customers in the U.S. that were performed very well this quarter for us and others that did not. Kelly, any comment on the numbers?
Yes. No, I'd say, I think you hit on it. I think with the Americas being down so much, it was a combination of Mexico. Again, these are big customers, and that was down. Chuck already mentioned Mexico was down 49%. It was a huge chunk of that was in the SP. And then in the U.S., the service providers, that was modestly down, not dramatic at all. Again, and that is, again, we had a lot of customers that were up and a lot that were down, so balanced overall.
The next question is coming from Pierre Ferragu of Sanford C. Bernstein Company.
I was wondering, Kelly and Chuck, if how much we should read in the weak guide you gave us against at least expectations we had on The Street. Is there a change we should expect in your seasonality pattern as you're going to watch more subscription services like natural, like trends of the first quarter that we've seen in the past? Is that something that we should see or we should expect to see changing over time?
Yes, I'll make a comment and let Kelly answer the seasonality portion of it. But clearly, the transition to the software and subscription business obviously impacts how to think about guidance going forward. And when you -- when we see particularly large quarters with high growth like we saw this quarter, I think it will have an impact. I'm not sure exactly how we look at what it means seasonally. Kelly?
Yes, I mean, I do think that the models that we've looked at, tried and true over the years, where we could look at normal sequential from Q3 and Q4, I think those models are changing because we are accelerating what is -- we're putting more on the balance sheet than what is amortizing off. While we are part of our revenue guide takes into account the growth of what's coming from our recurring offers, we're still adding so much more because we're adding more and more offers every day. So I do think it is changing a bit. I think we'll talk about this a bit more when we get to our Analyst conference in June as well. But we'll give you clarity of how we can continue to model that. We certainly saw the big chunk of our business that's driven by the core orders in the book and ship, because we still have a lot of our business that we haven't transitioned yet, but as we drive more and more of that, I do think it's going to have to change how we've modeled in the past as an analyst, right? And we'll give you the clarity to help that.
Next question is coming from the line of Steve Milunovich of UBS Securities.
Kelly, can you give us any guidance by product segment for next quarter? For example, Services, I assume, will be up again. So in terms of kind of the deceleration of the downside, where will we see that? Will Switching likely be down, Routing be down more kind of in terms of things getting a bit worse? Where do you think we'll see that?
Yes, I mean, again, Steve, that we -- because so much of our core business is still very much related to the orders that we have yet to book, our backlog accounts were less than 1/3. And so much of our quarter comes from the order yet to come. We don't give guidance by business unit. But directionally, I think you're thinking about it the right way, right? I mean, I think last quarter, we tried to guide, when we were talking about Routing. We knew we had strong orders a quarter ago in Routing, which is why it wasn't as bad as it had been in the quarter before this quarter on revenue. So again, it takes into account all of that. I do think, as you know, our Switching business is very fluid, so I don't think you should assume that, that is going to continue to be -- that goes up and down, so I don't think you should draw a trend having that being positive this quarter. So I think it's very fluid within business units.
Our next question is coming from Rod Hall of JPMorgan.
I just wanted to see if you could comment a little bit on the 31% recurring revenue. Maybe help us understand how much of that is SMARTnet and maintenance-type services and how much is, let's call it, next-gen recurring revenue. And so that -- and I also would like it, if you could comment, I know the carrier situation in the U.S. is pretty weak, and we've seen that across other companies as well. But could you comment on specific projects like the Metro Optical buildout? Is that still a bright spot? Do you still see that project moving ahead as expected?
Sure. I'll hit the first one. So yes, if I break out the 31%, so the way to think about it, Rod, is basically, 90% of my services revenue is recurring, okay? So of the 31%, 75% of that dollar amount, so the $3.6 billion -- over $3.6 billion, 75% of that comes from the Services business. On the product side, 10% of my product revenue is now coming from recurring, so that's over $900 million. So 25% of that over $3.6 billion. And so again, I think that Services has continued to be in that 90% range. And again, what we're really trying to drive is more and more of those offers on the product side.
Yes, and Rod, this is Chuck. Like 6 quarters ago, the product number, I think, was 6%, so we have made progress, and we'll continue to, as we see the amount of business that we're putting on the balance sheet is accelerating. On your second question, we absolutely continue to see the projects like Metro Optical moving forward. We've actually continued to do well in some of the next-generation areas that we're working with many of the U.S. service providers. So we see that going well, and we do believe that as they make some of these transitions, we are going to be right in the middle of them with them.
The next question is coming from Vijay Bhagavath of Deutsche Bank.
I mean, Chuck, I'm just a research analyst. I've noticed you're using AI machine learning quite a bit more recently. So like to get your idea, Chuck, and also, Kelly, if you could, in terms of which might be the product areas within Cisco where you're apply AI machine learning to the max initially, where you see kind of low-hanging fruit, immediate kind of business outcomes from AI machine learning. Would it be in which parts of the portfolio?
Thanks, Vijay. Yes, it's -- your point is actually quite accurate that we look at how we use it -- both of those as tools across our entire portfolio. And I would tell you that there are initiatives underway and there are active solutions already in the marketplace that have elements of that. In our security portfolio, there are absolutely elements of the that, that are in our collaboration portfolio already. We see lots of opportunities when you start talking about automation and analytics and things like network assurance, capabilities or in service provider, self-healing networks. So we see the opportunity across everything we do, and we have initiatives both already working with customers as well as a lot of work going on inside the business units to leverage AI machine learning and other technologies going forward.
The next question is from Paul Silverstein of Cowen and Company.
I'm hoping for a clarification on certain issues. One, going back to the earlier question on pricing. Kelly, did I hear you say that pricing was relatively stable? And can you give us some granularity in terms of what you're seeing in Europe Switching and Routing in terms of pricing? And just very quickly, 2 quarters ago, you quantified the impact of the shift to recurring revenue model. I think you'd cited 100- to 200-plus basis point adverse impact. Can you give us quantification of that impact this quarter?
Sure. So on the pricing, yes, just to give you the clarification of the pricing, and I'll pull up actually between Europe here, so just give me a second. But so to clarify, so we do have normal price erosion every period for, mostly, in our switching and routing portfolio, those are the ones that are most sensitive to it. It's been in the same consistent percentage in terms of price reduction year-over-year that it has been both last quarter, a year ago and so in the last -- we had one favorable quarter where we had some favorability for some rebates, but overall, it's been in the same range. But it hasn't gotten worse. I'll pull up about -- I'll try to pull up here as I'm answering the second question, any difference between Europe and the Americas. But I think it's fairly consistent across the regions. The second clarification was on -- what was it, Marilyn? The...
On the impact of the recurring business.
Yes. Yes, so I have been saying it's in the 1 to 2 range. It is definitely pushing closer to the 2% range at this point. I mean, I think, it's clearly driven. We share with you the balance and that's accelerating, and I certainly look at the short-term portion of that and try to quarterize that together with it. But it's definitely -- it's pointing to the 2% more than the 1%. And Paul, I'll get back to you on that -- if there's any difference between Americas and Europe on that.
Next question is from Tal Liani of Bank of America.
If my numbers are correct, your recurring revenues grew 6% year-over-year, and it was 14% the previous quarters. And I'm trying to see what could cause reacceleration. The question I have is whether you focus the recurring part mostly on new types of businesses, such as security and others, or you can find ways to go back to Switching and Routing and change either pricing scheme or add features or do something such that recurring revenues outside of maintenance, of course, recurring revenues grow, and you can add software features on top will do that. The question is whether the customers will accept it or is this is going to be a traditional business model forever?
Yes, Tal, thanks for the question. So even in our current deferred revenue from Software and Subscription, there are elements of our core portfolio that are included in that $4.4 billion that you saw primarily through our Cisco ONE offerings that we put together. Probably 18 months ago, we started that journey and we got those offers and they began to ramp. But we also are looking -- obviously, security is ramping. Collaboration has been the one probably the longest in this model. But we do believe that across the portfolio, with future offers, we have the opportunity to do that, and you'll see that as we deliver on some of the new capabilities. Kelly, any commentary on the...
Yes, on the slowdown, so Tal, we're actually not slowing down. The reason it looks like it's slowing down is for the Services piece, we do have the extra week compare. So if you adjust for that, it's up double digits in total. And if I look at just product, the growth of product, which I said is over $900 million, that's growing 34% year-over-year, and it was 30% last quarter. So that continues to grow faster.
I believe that was our last question. Chuck, maybe I'll turn it to you for over for final words.
Yes, so first of all, I want to thank all of you for joining the call today. I wanted to just take a minute and reiterate that I believe that our strategy is working, and I'm really -- I'm optimistic about where we're going to go over the next 3 to 5 years. We set out 18 months ago to transition the business to one of more software and subscription. At the time, 8 quarters ago, it was $2 billion on our balance sheet. Today, we've more than doubled that, up 57% this quarter to $4.4 billion and accelerating. So I believe that is working, and we'll continue to shift more and more of our offers into that space. We also, obviously, wanted to be very clear about the areas that we needed to invest in, and you've seen significant investments in security and collaboration over the years. About 15 months ago, we made obvious reallocations of expenses more towards the core, and you're going to see future innovation in that space as well. Our customers really are going to be adding billions of connections in the future, and they are going to need a next-generation network with security automation and analytics. And so we're transitioning the business model. We're transitioning the network offers that we're going to deliver to our customers as they move into this next generation. And at the same time, we are leveraging our capability to do inorganic as well as organic innovation to make that happen. And in the midst of all this change, we remain very committed to our execution model and ensuring that we're focused on profitability as well as capital returns to our shareholders. So that's a summary of where I think we are right now, and I wanted to thank all of you for spending time with us today. Thanks.
Thanks, Chuck, and I'll go ahead and close it up here. Cisco's next quarterly earnings conference call, which will reflect our fiscal 2017 fourth quarter and annual results, will be on Wednesday, August 16, 2017, at 1:30 p.m. Pacific time, 4:30 p.m. Eastern time. Again, I'd like to remind the audience that in light of Regulation FD, Cisco's policy is not to comment on its financial guidance during the quarter unless it's done through an explicit public disclosure. We now plan to close the call. If you have any further questions, feel free to contact the Investor Relations Department here. And we thank you very much for joining today's call.
Thank you for participating on today's conference call. If you would like to listen to the call in its entirety, you may call 1 (866) 443-8010. For participants dialing from outside the U.S., please dial 1 (203) 369-1121. This concludes today's call. You may disconnect at this time.