Great. Amy, I had a question about commercial cloud COGS, and I was wondering if you could give us a sense of what percentage of these roughly is related to depreciation, and how should we think about the pace of your CapEx deployments versus what you have been experiencing in commercial cloud to support the initiatives and the vast growth opportunities that you see ahead as we look out over the next 12 to 24 months? If there's anything you could share with us around that.
Let me break down the question a couple ways. Overall, when you think about COGS and the pacing, the depreciation rates of our servers don't change. It's generally over a 3-year period. And there's other pieces of equipment that have longer or shorter depreciation lives. So that pace of depreciation doesn't change per se.
If you're looking to see how we see demand, obviously this quarter, in Q4 we felt very good about cloud demand across all 3 services but in particular with Azure. I feel confident in our ability to produce gross margin improvement across all those services. I feel confident in our ability to continue to make progress on our overall commercial cloud gross margin growth. And I am encouraged by the demand signals we're getting.
All of those things, I think -- it's not really about the pace, it's as much about the progress and demand and meeting those things as closely as we can, and I feel really good about the team's execution.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley.
There's a lot of rumors and speculation around a sales reorganization, that you guys are sort of shifting around resources to sort of better distribute to cloud and new technologies. I was wondering if you guys could dig into that for us a little bit. What kind of changes are taking place in terms of go-to-market distribution heading into FY '18?
Yes, let me start there. And first of all, thank you for the question, Keith. Overall, the approach we have taken for multiple years now is to transform everything that we do inside the company, whether it's the product creation; how we are organized in the R&D; how we think about breaking down any silos and category definitions we may have had in the past; how we think about even marketing and the marketing approach; and then, of course, even with the go-to-market.
And this transformation is ongoing. This has been happening over multiple years. But we have now got very good customer momentum, because ultimately this is all driven by the opportunity at hand, which is much bigger than anything that we have participated in the past. So the total addressable market is much bigger. And second, our customer expectations and our partner expectations of how we show up with them has changed. And so over the years, we have been making changes. And now that we have a lot more momentum and critical mass, we're going to that next phase. And that's what you are seeing us -- in terms of changing the skill sets, changing the scope of how we show up to support the digital transformation needs of both large customers as well as small businesses.
And I think in many ways, Keith, what we've done is really a natural extension of some of the investments we've made over the past 18 months to add technical resources, to be more present in customer accounts, to really drive their transformation towards success outcomes. You're seeing it even in our Intelligent Cloud results last quarter and this quarter. We're taking that learning over the past 18 months and really applying it at a broader scale across the sales force to put those resources where we feel confident that they'll have a good long-term return in that next phase of transformation.
Thank you, Keith.
Our next question comes from the line of Karl Keirstead with Deutsche Bank.
Question for Amy. Amy, there were a lot of numbers in this print that look very strong, but one that stood out to me was the commercial bookings growth of 30%. You did touch on it a little bit in your remarks, but if you don't mind, I'd love to ask you a few questions. One is, you mentioned that maybe part of the strength was terrific execution on renewals. Does it feel like maybe last quarter was a little bit of a renewal flush? In other words, it might have been a bit of a onetime phenomenon?
Secondly, is Microsoft doing anything different around contract structure or invoicing to -- that would result in bookings being unusually high, maybe collecting a little bit more up front?
And lastly, is it fair to interpret the strong bookings performance as giving us, and I suppose you, comfort in your revenue growth profile in fiscal '18 as all those bookings obviously convert to reported revs?
Thanks, Karl. Let me make sure I cover off on most of those. Let me start by saying the biggest driver in commercial bookings growth this quarter was excellent execution on a large base of renewals. The second component of that is the execution on new revenue, in particular Azure, as well as Windows commercial. And billings in the quarter were very good and quite encouraging overall. There was no change in any way to invoicing, people paying earlier, paying more up front. That's definitely not an impact on that number.
And so overall I think, while it is certainly aided by the large expiry base because it tends to impact the CNB balance the most, it's really, I think, to your point, it is clearly encouraging because it gives us a very good base of support going into FY '18 to come in to the GAAP reporting numbers.
Our next question comes from the line of Walter Pritchard with Citi.
Amy, I'm wondering, on the gross profit growth, I was looking through the slide deck, and it looked like gross profit growth in PBP was up about 2%. You saw some strong trends in different parts of that business, and I think that 2% I would have thought would have been higher. Could you help us understand the puts and takes around gross profit growth in PBP?
There's a couple things, but in general, it's almost always mix shift. While we saw improvement in the gross margin percentage in Office 365 and continue to make progress on that, it's also the balance, right? This is the first quarter where we've actually seen the balance tip in terms of recognized revenue to online versus perpetual. So I actually feel very good that, as we continue to accelerate the growth trajectory, that you're not seeing, frankly, much impact on the gross margin line, and we're seeing a lot of leverage in that through OpEx all the way down to the operating income line.
Great. Thank you, Walter.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Moerdler with Bernstein Research.
Amy, commercial cloud ARR grew 24% Q-over-Q, which is the largest Q-over-Q growth so far. Completely understand that Q4 is a big quarter for closing business, but $3.7 billion is a large number. Can you give us some more color on exactly what's driving this growth? And then I have a quick follow-up.
Sure. When you think about -- you're right, it is a big number, and I feel very good about it. And for the year, on a pure basis, it was $15 billion of commercial cloud revenue. See, we're starting to get to that point, Mark, where you have a big base which is still growing at a fast rate, and so especially ARR numbers can see big jumps, in the one that you saw this quarter. And you're right, Q4 is also historically quite a big quarter, and this one certainly was as well.
But you also saw, and what really does matter, especially in Azure, is usage growth, really consumption growth, having customers use, deploy, be successful and really continue to get, you think, sort of meters up and running, and that continues to build on itself. And so when you start to see that, you can and I do think we'll continue to see good growth in this number.
Excellent. As a quick follow-up, how should we think of how that sets us up for '18 in terms of hitting expectations, beating expectations, continuing strong 40s, 50s percent year-over-year growth?
Let me start by saying, first, I feel very good about meeting our stated goal of $20 billion in commercial cloud ARR. Next, I think across every service, the momentum we've seen in Q4 -- and in particular, I would say I think not many people focus on it, but even things like Windows, E5, Advanced Threat Protection services, those types of deployments really will add to momentum in our offerings.
One of the things we often talk about is we sell Microsoft 365. That's Windows 10 with security and services. It's a modern workplace that includes up-to-date Office 365. It includes EMS. We really did see strength across all of them. So I don't really think it's about a percentage but it's about each of them continuing to make progress.
Our next question comes from the line of Phil Winslow with Wells Fargo.
A question first for Amy on Office 365. Office 365 commercial revenue continues to outpace the unit growth, the monthly active users, so you're still seeing that trend up to E3, E5, et cetera. I wonder if you could take us through where we are in that life cycle.
And also, just to follow on your comment to the last question, Satya, you launched at Inspire Microsoft 365 that Amy just mentioned. How should we think about Microsoft 365 in the context of Office 365, also just given the fact that Windows Commercial actually accelerated this quarter as well?
Yes, maybe I can start and then...
Why don't you start and I'll do the next one.
So one of the things that we're very excited about and have learned a lot from is the Secure Productive Enterprise offer that we've had now last year, and in fact in Q4, it really accelerated significantly. And so that's helped us, in fact, come up with Microsoft 365 as this very strong offering that brings together Office 365, Windows 10 as well as our Enterprise Mobility + Security and support even cross-platform devices. So we think of the modern workplace as having a very significant footprint of Windows, but also people who use phones of iOS and Android, but they need both productivity, creativity, security across all of this estate of theirs. And that's where I think we have a competitive advantage and a great value proposition.
So that's what Microsoft 365 embodies. It's today available in -- for enterprises, and in the fall you will have the mid-market version of it, which I think is another very big opportunity, because it really helps take what we have learned in the large enterprises and scale it to where perhaps the need is even more acute. And so we are excited about that when -- at Inspire, the partner channel obviously is very excited about it as well.
And Phil, to your point, and it's a nice transition from Satya's point about especially the mid-market offering coming in the fall for Microsoft 365, is the install base growth. You're right; in terms of Office Commercial 365, the primary driver is still install base, both the transition as well as new. I think we're optimistic as we head into FY '18 for the install base growth that's possible in particular for some of these mid-market offerings that we're quite proud of.
The ARPU growth that you saw and have seen the past couple of quarters continues to primarily, Phil, be related still to the E1 to E3 transition. When we mentioned E5, I think that's, frankly, encouraging for us, because all of these premium offers do best when you start the deployment motion. People start using E1, then they use E3, and then you start to see the momentum in E5. And we did see that. However, in terms of ARPU impact, very, very small in quarter. So that's something that, over time, you would continue to see improvement in, in terms of impact on ARPU.
Thanks, Phil.
Our next question comes from the line of Kash Rangan with Merrill Lynch.
Curious if you can shed a little bit more light on commercial bookings growth of 30%. Clearly, that's off the charts. And also, when I look at the $18.9 billion of annualized revenue, and judging from the fact that the commercial business, non-Azure component of it, was about steady in growth rate (inaudible) that Azure went through some significant acceleration which is yet to be reflected in your forward-looking revenues, if you could just shed a little bit more light and drill into any 2 or 3 product SKUs or areas or geographies that contributed to that off-the-charts performance, that would be great.
Thanks, Kash. Let me go through the bookings. Again, with that 30%, the first and best contributor to that is the strong performance on the renewals in-quarter. It was reasonably consistent, Kash. There's not a geo in particular that I would say was a massive outlier, although, in 2 of our largest geos, the U.S. and Germany, they did have very good years, in particular in Q4.
Now if you separate the fact that we had the large base, which clearly contributes to that bookings number being big, aside from that, in particular Azure, in the last, to your point, did it really show up in that $18.9 billion, it didn't. The strong billings growth really showed up in that unearned outperformance, which you saw versus the guide, and it was significant. And a lot of that is the Azure billings. I think we felt very good. Those as well, I think, were pretty broad-based across industry, I would also say across geos. And so while we, of course, get some strength from our largest geos, and I would say they were probably the largest contributors, it was actually quite broad. There's not really one place for me to say that "We just saw it here."
And then the final component that I would say was better than we anticipated and where you'd see that, Kash, again, versus the unearned guidance and the beat that we had there, was that final piece around our security value prop, ATP. Windows annuity growth was very good. That's in the KPI Windows commercial products and services, is the place you'll look and see that number. And outside of that, I mean, those really are the biggest contributors.
Yes, I'm going to -- if I'll add one thing, I'll just say that nothing shows up in just 1 quarter. We have been working on this for a long time, whether it's the product and the approach we have taken from IaaS to PaaS to SaaS, even the diversity of our SaaS offerings, and also how we think about going to market. All of these have been multiple years of hard work. And clearly, there is momentum across the board, and that, I think, is what you're seeing. And we are excited about this quarter's execution and performance. And I think it bodes well for what we do in the future. But the key is for us to recognize that this is about sort of long-term commitment to a big opportunity and making sure that you line up your execution against that.
And I think maybe I should have also mentioned, when you think about seeing that type of performance, and Satya mentioned, it's not just because of work done this quarter. It's a great point. But it's also the investments we've made. We've committed. We did sales overlays. We added technical resources. We put resources at customers ahead of the curve. We did that. You saw that in the operating -- in the Intelligent Cloud OpEx growth over the past few quarters. That execution is what's landing.
Clearly something inflected and it looks like you're gaining share, so congratulations.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Murphy with JPMorgan.
Amy, going back to the size of -- the large size of the expiry base in Q4, when we look back 3 years to June of '14, the -- in that quarter, the commercial bookings grew 23%. I'm just curious, is that representative of the portfolio that flowed through into this quarter on a 3-year cycle? Or is it more complex than that? And also, does it include or exclude LinkedIn contributions for the current period?
And just finally, I'm wondering, again, looking back 3 years, it was a different number in the September quarter that follows, and can you help us just with the year-over-year growth of the expiry base for the September quarter? I'm not sure if you had commented on that.
Okay. You're right. Mark, it's not exactly. If I said is the Q3 from 3 years ago exactly the expiry base, it's not exactly, but it's directionally. And so that's a good example, to say every 3 years tends to be the length of our agreements. And so you do tend to see that repeated. And so that's what we mean by sort of the record or the largest expiry base, and that is the pattern. In terms of LinkedIn having any impact, it did not. So that is the cleanest way to think about that number.
Thanks, Mark.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross MacMillan with RBC Capital.
I'm actually going to ask a question about the traditional server products business, which once again had a pretty strong growth rate at 5%. I think the last 3 quarters we've been trending at mid-single digits or even higher. And Amy, I'd just love your thoughts, as we progress through fiscal '18 just so we think about this in the right way, how would you expect that sort of growth rate to trend? And should we be sort of aware of the comps that come up in Q2 and beyond?
Maybe I can start and at least give you what -- how we think about it technically and product-wise, and then we can go into sort of talking about the future in terms of the results itself.
First of all, we don't think of our servers as distinct from our cloud. In other words, this intelligent cloud and the intelligent edge is the architecture or pattern for which we are building, whether it's SQL Server 2017 or with Windows Server, the Container Service. Everything that we do assumes that distributed computing will actually remain distributed. And it turns out that it's helpful to think about it that way both for customers who are rationalizing their portfolios of apps as they lift, shift, modernize as to what they run in their data centers or in our data centers but also forward-looking new workloads. If you look at some of the most exciting things that are happening in the cloud is cloud applications that actively require an edge. Azure IoT or Azure Stack are becoming the run times of the edge, where you do need not only the ability to do compute and storage but to run the AI inference and the edge.
So to me, that's what we are building to. It's actually a big architectural shift from thinking purely of this as a migration to some public cloud to really thinking of this as a real future distributed computing infrastructure and applications that I, quite frankly, feel very, very good about leading. And so in that context, our server license revenue will fluctuate based on what the macro is and these transitions and mix shifts. But from a forward-looking perspective, I want us to be very, very clear that we anticipate the edge to be actually one of the more exciting parts of what's happening with our infrastructure.
And so that leads why I always tend to say I don't focus as much on the mix per se. I know both of them will matter. I know both of them are important. And so that's why I tend to focus on that all up server KPI combination of the progress in the cloud, Azure, as well as the Edge, which is the on-prem. And so I think we remain confident in that double-digit target that we have for that KPI. And there isn't really, I don't think, sort of a comparability challenge per se, but that's why we try to keep it at that high level, to not get too tied to one or the other, given we know the TAM expansion that's possible. We know we can grow within it.
And I apologize, I didn't answer Mark's last component, so let me just go back, and I had forgotten, which was, was there anything unique in the expiry base for Q1. The answer is it's up a little year-over-year but -- and certainly not through the same type of Q4 comparable. When we tend to have these, we try to call them out, like we did in Q3 leading into Q4. So Q1, I would say, is just up a little, so I wouldn't expect any material impact.
Thank you, Ross.
Our next question comes from the line of Raimo Lenschow with Barclays.
I wanted to drill in on the premium service in Azure. Satya, you talked a little bit about SharePoint taking off and being a big part. Can you talk a little bit about the portfolio you have there? And I also wanted to contrast it a little bit with one of your main competitors who keeps coming up with new products just to kind of get to that premium service and the advantage that you guys have, given the IP that you've built up over the years.
Yes, I mean, I think we have premium services, whether it's in Office 365 or in the SaaS side with Dynamics 365, and that's where the SharePoint comment came, that there's a lot more in Office 365 adoption cycle beyond Exchange or e-mail.
On the Azure side, my comments, in fact, walked that entire tree, so to speak, which is there's the infrastructure there, where in fact even in the infrastructure side there is no such thing as one generic infrastructure, when I look at the diversity of the virtual machines, what's happening with AI infrastructure, with GPU compute. So there's a lot of richness there.
The layer above that, for me, is the data estate. One of the exciting things is the growth in Azure DB, the growth in Cosmos DB, our data warehouse product the Data Lake. So that's a place where we are seeing significant attach. On top of the data is where the AI services, whether it's the bot framework, the cognitive services. So that's all the rich services where we're seeing significant customer action.
The other side of it is the edge. So Azure IoT, our service both in the cloud and the edge, and Azure Stack now, truly starting this quarter, is going to be another way to extend out the rich services of Azure even beyond public cloud deployment. So that's what hopefully gives you a flavor for the IP that we have.
And then one linchpin that we have between, in fact, our SaaS services as well as Azure is Azure Active Directory. 90% of all the enterprises use Azure -- use Active Directory, and all of them rendezvous with Azure Active Directory irrespective of what applications they have in whichever cloud, because that becomes a very key control plane for IT.
And our last question will come from the line of Brad Reback with Stifel.
Amy, as the Azure business continues to gain scale and, to Raimo's question, the premium mix continues to become a bigger part of that, is there any reason to think that the gross margin gains shouldn't accelerate in '18 versus where they were in '17?
Thanks, Brad. The way I tend to think about it is, with any service, you want the gross margin itself to improve. And that includes, in the Azure services, components themselves. The difference between core compute and store versus the premium layers can be significant, and we've had improvement across all of them.
So the real question on how and where should the Azure gross margin be is about sort of the ultimate mix of those. And we saw significant improvement this year. We expect a lot of improvement again next year on each of those service lines. And where the actual mix occurs among those lines, I think we'll just have to wait and see. But -- and that's why I tend to not focus at that layer. It's like, can you get every service better; can you make material improvement; and then, of course, can you get usage and consumption going. That leads to premium service usage. And of course, over time, you'd expect a higher mix of premium versus core.
So that wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. As Amy mentioned, Frank and I will be hosting a conference call in early August to discuss the changes under the new revenue standard. You can find additional details for that on the Microsoft Investor Relations website when available. Thank you again for joining us today.
Thank you all. Thanks.
Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and thank you for your participation.