Our first question comes from the line of Pierre Ferragu with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
Kelly, I can't help asking you an update on gross margin movements. So can you give us a bit of a sense of how big is memory prices in the 1.5 points gross margin declines that you've seen year-on-year? And then sequentially, your guide for gross margin in -- for Q2 was slightly below what you've been guiding for Q1. Is there still like incremental headwind coming from compound pricing hurting you from the Q1 to Q2?
Yes. Thanks, Pierre. Great question. Yes, so the vast majority of the impact on our gross margin is driven by memory. It is basically 1.3 points of my product gross margin decline year-over-year. Everything else in our gross margin is basically in the normal ranges. So we expect that to continue. When you look at the guidance, we did bring it down 0.5 point to account for that because we are still seeing increases as we look forward -- moving forward. But otherwise, we kind of see everything else in the normal range of things.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Moskowitz with Barclays Capital.
Chuck, you talked about 1,100 customers have already adopted the intuitive network. I just want to get a sense in terms of how does that underpin, longer term, the steady-state growth? You guys guided to about 1% to 3% growth for the current quarter. But as more and more of those customers adopt and they move beyond the labs and move beyond the proof-of-concept, can we actually see your growth tick higher than 1% to 3% on a steady-state?
Yes, Mark. Thanks for the question. So clearly, we're pleased with where we're going right now with this product portfolio. We're pleased with the early feedback. I'll tell you that our sales teams, our partners and our customers, are very excited about the architecture that we've announced. It's still one quarter, so we have to get a little more time under our belt.
But what I will tell you is that when we look back at a transition like the 3850 years and years ago, it's very much in line. And I think that as more customers have the opportunity to test the automation and programmability and all those software features that they're testing right now, we would hope that the platform continues to accelerate. So one quarter down, but we feel good about where we are.
Our next question comes from Steven Milunovich with UBS Securities.
To continue along those lines, Chuck, you talked a little bit about the software attach rates. Could you elaborate on that? And particularly the advantage premium, which, I think, has the encryption capability and so forth? Exactly what sort of mix are you seeing? And do you think that customers are going to be willing to pay up for the premium?
Well, thanks, Steve. So what I said in the script is that a vast majority of our customers that are buying these platforms are opting for the advanced. And I would say that it's a vast majority. We knew when we introduced a subscription on a switch that we needed to ensure that there was unique innovation that was available to our customers in order for them to see value in that.
We couldn't just simply shift the capabilities that they had gotten before in a perpetual model. We needed to drive new innovation. So the anchors that are in that advanced subscription are the overall automation capability, which really gets at the OpEx of running these networks; and the second part is the Encrypted Traffic Analytics, where we can determine when there's malware inside encrypted traffic without decrypting it.
And we think that those 2 are phenomenal incremental capabilities that our customers didn't have before, and I think that's why we're seeing such a high attach rate. So we're very pleased with where we are on that as well.
Our next question is from Vijay Bhagavath with Deutsche Bank securities.
Yes, my question for you, Chuck, and Kelly, please join in, is has anything changed in your sales motion in terms of data center switching? And the reason I ask is we are starting to see this positive news flow, Alibaba cloud recently and, perhaps here in Microsoft as well.
What has changed in your view, Chuck, in terms of the sales motion? Is it the clouds paying attention to things like software automation tools, security? Anything else? Or is it just a sales focus on cloud? Help us understand.
Vijay, thanks for the question. We've been talking about this for several calls now, about how we've reengaged with the large web scale providers back -- right after I became CEO, and these are long processes as they made major architectural decisions and they have franchises that you're trying to reenter.
But if you look at whether it's the announcements we've made with Microsoft a couple of quarters ago, the announcement we made with Google, you alluded to Alibaba, which there's a summary of that win on our website, if you want to go see that. It's our first insertion there. And actually, it was before the large sales day they experienced, I think, last week.
And so we continue to make progress, and we're continuing to execute on what I told you that we're executing on over the last 1.5 years, which is trying to go deeper. I think the other thing that has become eminently clear is that these large web scale providers realize that it is going to be a multi-cloud world, and they definitely have come to the conclusion that the Edge is going to be mission-critical for our customers going forward.
And as I think about that, we're a very natural -- we're the very natural partner for them to partner with as the network is the only common denominator across all these cloud environments all the way out to the edge of our enterprise customers' networks. So we're just continuing to execute against what we set out 2 years ago, and we hope to continue to seek success.
Our next question is from Paul Silverstein with Cowen and Company.
Chuck and Kelly, recognize you guys are no longer breaking it out, but I'm hoping that you'll throw us a bone and put numbers on the data center switching revenue growth, given how important it is and how stronger growth market that's been. And as part of that, Chuck, related to the previous question, can you give us any quantification of your progress with the Web 2.0 hyperscale customer segment, given the importance of that segment?
Yes. So Paul, yes, I mean, obviously, we're trying to go to new groupings. But just to give you some color. I mean, we continue to see the double-digit growth that we've been talking about of our ACI portfolio, continue in the strong double digits. And overall, data center was certainly up from a revenue perspective.
And I think, Paul, from a perspective of the web scale, I mean, it's really just what I described. We're in discussions with all of them. We have made announcements with several of them, and we continue to execute against our strategy. And again, it's -- these are large franchises. There's 2 facets. And if you remember on a call back -- 2 or 3 calls back, I said that we're now expanding our discussions into 360-degree relationship discussions.
The Google announcement was reflective of that comment because not only are we working on their infrastructure, but we're also working significantly on this multi-cloud enablement, hybrid cloud enablement and helping bridge our customers -- their premise-based solutions, their Edge-based solutions, their cloud applications, their SaaS applications. And so we just -- we're continuing to execute on that right now.
Our next question is from Ittai Kidron with Oppenheimer & Co.
Nice to see growth on the guide. I had a couple of things. First of all, for you, Kelly, can you update us on the number of Cisco ONE customers? Just as a housekeeping. And then for you, Chuck, getting a little bit deeper into the infrastructure part of the business. Great color there on the product lines, but maybe you can help us fine tune a couple of things. One, on the hyperconverged, I think Kelly actually mentioned that you were off to a good start there.
But maybe you can help us understand where you stand on that product line, how good you feel about the platform, how stable it is. And then the weakness in the enterprise routing, I'm just trying to understand how much of it is a secular issue, meaning SD-WAN is starting to make an impact there versus an execution or seasonal element. Is this going to be another part of your business that's just going to be under pressure for a long time as routing has been?
Kelly, you want to...
Yes, I'll just hit the Cisco ONE. Cisco ONE continues to have great momentum. We're over 22,000 customers at this point with that. So still great momentum.
Yes, Ittai, just -- so thanks for your comments, by the way. On the hyperconverged offer or HyperFlex offer, I would tell you that it has continued to probably be at the high-end of my expectations. I'd say a couple of quarters ago, it began to exceed what I was expecting, so I changed my expectations. And it's -- but they're doing a great job. The teams are doing well. I think we know the use cases where it's very competitive, and I think that it continues to -- they continue to operate at the high end of what I expected from them.  So we're very pleased with that.
On the question relative to SD-WAN, I think you nailed it, right. The -- our customers, and we've talked about this for a couple of calls, our customers have been trying to assess what this SD-WAN architectural transition looks like. And I think that after we acquired Viptela, we have now, at our sales meeting, we provided tremendous clarity to our sales organization and our partner community at the Partner Summit about what our strategy is. We've now taken customers through the road maps of what they can expect and then -- and how to position the different alternatives that we have and how those portfolios are going to come together over the next 12 to 18 months.
So I think that it is a by-product of the SD-WAN discussion. And I would expect that we'll start to see customers move somewhat this quarter. And then in the second half of the year, I think our customers will continue to begin to deploy some of these solutions. So again, happy with where we are relative to the positioning of the different platforms.
Our next question is from George Notter with Jefferies.
I guess, I was curious about the revenue headwind associated with the move to a subscription model, including Cisco ONE. Can you remind us what you wound up seeing in terms of the headwind in the October quarter, and then also, what you're assuming for January?
Yes, George, thanks for the question. Yes, right now, we're still seeing it around that 2% range. We expect the headwind to grow once the -- once we continue to grow the intuitive network that has a subscription. As that grows, that'll grow. But right now, it's in that 2% range, 1.5% to 2% range. And we expect that to be roughly in that range next quarter as well.
Our next question is from Tal Liani with Bank of America Securities Merrill Lynch.
My question is almost a follow-up to the previous question. Can you elaborate? I know you started at the beginning of the year to do the Subscription for Switching. Can you elaborate on, first of all, the experience you've had so far, cases where customers took the subscription versus didn't take?
What does it include? Just elaborate on the subscription and kind of the profile of it and also the take rate so far and whether you need to make any changes to it in order to improve take rates, et cetera. I'm just trying to understand the implications for future years.
Yes. So Tal, thanks for the question. Let me break it down. So the advanced subscription today is primarily being sold on the new Catalyst 9000, even though it's backwards compatible with a couple of years worth of our, I don't know, 2, 3 years' worth of products that we've shipped in wireless and in routing, et cetera.
But what the customers are doing right now is they're basically becoming accustomed to the platform. They're testing the platform before they make an investment on any sort of backwards compatibility is what I would tell you. I don't think we need to make any changes right now because the attach rate of the most advanced subscription offer is at the very high end of what I would've expected.
So I think we're very pleased with where it is right now. And assuming we execute on the value and the innovation that our customers continue to gain from that, then I think that we'll begin to see them then buy the subscriptions on some of their installed base as well. That would be our intent.
And just to add to that, I mean, just to be clear, 100% of the switches we're selling come with a subscription. It's just a difference on what additional features and security are added between the Advantage and the Essentials. So 100% of the new switches are sold with a subscription, and that's going well.
Your next question is from Mitchell Steves with RBC Capital Markets.
I wanted to focus on the Security angle. So despite having pretty difficult comparisons last year, still up 8%, so can you maybe provide some color what's going well there? And then secondly, any sort of growth rates or rough numbers with the advanced threat versus web security growth rates?
Thanks, Mitch. So I think that the thing that is resonating with the customer is if you look at the environments that they're all beginning to operate in, they're operating in an environment where they have multiple SaaS providers, multiple cloud providers. They've got their private data centers with applications running. They've got their branch networks. They've got now Edge connectivity with IoT coming in.
And so the robustness of an architecture that they have to have that protects across the network, across the endpoint, across the cloud is really what, I think, is differentiating it. And we've also -- we've been on a multi-year journey of selling software and subscriptions against the threat intelligence and the malware intelligence that we have, and I think that's what's continuing to pay off. So I think it's resonating with our customers, and it's an architecture that we can continue to innovate on. We continue to expand on. And Kelly, any comments on the...
Yes. I mean, I'd just say advanced threat and unified threat as well as even web security, they're all up big double digits. I mean, just really strong growth.
Next question is from James Faucette with Morgan Stanley Investment Research.
I wanted to ask a question on capital structure. Can you give us an idea of what your preference is and priorities will be in capital structure in terms of buybacks and acquisitions, et cetera, if the proposed new tax changes pass versus if that change in tax law gets derailed? I'm particularly curious as to how you're thinking about the pacing of acquisitions versus buybacks, et cetera.
Yes, I'll take that one. What I'd say is in terms of acquisitions, the tax policy isn't impacting us either way because we are lucky to have a great cash flow and access to capital. So it hasn't been stopping us from anything from an acquisition perspective, and it won't. So that will continue. I would say we're definitely encouraged by the progress that's going on in the tax reform.
So like  we said in the past, when that happens and if we get a repatriation, which most plans currently have, we're going to continue, like we have, growing our dividend with our earnings growth. And where we have opportunity is really to get much more aggressive than we have been on the share buyback. And of course, we want to make sure we continue to have enough firepower to continue to able to do the right acquisitions to help us position Cisco right for the long term.
Our next question is from Simon Leopold with Raymond James & Associates.
I wanted to see if you could give us a little bit more insight into what you would attribute the outlook to in terms of this is the first quarter with year-over-year growth we've seen in quite some time. So I'm wondering, if we attribute it to an easy comparison or lapping the buildup of deferred revenue or some specific product cycles, if you could help us assess the key elements bringing you back to year-over-year growth.
Kelly, you want to...
Yes, sure. I mean, I'll give you some color. I'd say, it's a combination of things, right? I mean, if I go to the amount of revenue coming off the balance sheet from the progress we've been steadily making on growing our software and subscriptions, it's now up to 12% of our product revenue is now coming from recurring offers and off the balance sheet. So that's helping.
I would say also, the launch that we had on the intuitive network and the excitement around the reinvention of the core is having an impact. So we're encouraged. And you heard me mention, we're seeing positive demand on [man or wan] Campus Switching overall, which is great, and that has a big impact because it's one of the biggest pieces of our portfolio.
So that, combined with pretty good orders like we had in Q1, gives us a very good backlog position that allows us to have a good view into what the next quarter looks like. So I'd say, overall, the overall strategy, what we've been executing and talking about for the last couple of years here is we've been making progress, and all of this is benefiting us in the outlook.
James, just to clarify one point or just to add to it, actually, when Kelly says 12% of our product revenue is coming from recurring offers, just to put that in perspective, when I became CEO, it was 6%. So we've effectively doubled that. And I think that's certainly helpful. And just we have seen -- we're seeing positive feedback on the launch. So I'm sorry that was Simon. I apologize, Simon.
Our next question is from Jeffrey Kvaal with Nomura Securities International.
Jeff?
Oh, sorry. I'm on mute. Pardon me. Yes, I was hoping to ask about competition in the Enterprise Switching space. And we've seen a little bit more out of Huawei perhaps, not in the U.S., of course, but international. I'm wondering if you could put some of that color into context for us, both from them and also from some of your traditional rivals.
In the enterprise switches?
Yes, enterprise. Yes.
So thanks for the question, Jeff. I think that if you look at some of the performance we saw around the world, to your point, in Europe and Asia, we've talked about Huawei's activity over the last couple of quarters. I would say that our teams have been very focused on it. I think that the intuitive network launch that we did in June really changes the discussion.
And where we compete with competitors who their value prop is upfront cost of the hardware, I think we're changing the discussion, because if you look at the cost of operating this infrastructure over a 5-year period, it's probably 10x the cost of the upfront hardware.
So going and helping our customers really reduced that is a value proposition that helps us change the discussion relative to the competition. So they continue to be very tough, but we think that competing on the price of the box upfront is something that we can shift over the next couple of years.
Our next question is from Erik Suppiger with JMP Securities.
It was good to see Security picking up. What are your expectations for Security growth? In the past, you've talked about driving double-digit growth on the Security side. Is that still a goal? And where do you think you are in terms of getting there?
Yes, Erik, thanks for that. So at our financial analyst conference this summer, we articulated a long-range guide in line with what you just described. We're going to have quarters that are going to be -- that are going to vary from that. But that's definitely our long-term objective.
And I think our teams are focused now on what is it we need to do for the next wave of this architecture. Once we have this architecture built, where we can actually defend and apply real-time defense against known threats, we can learn about a threat through malware and e-mail, and we can protect against it in the network and the cloud and the devices at the endpoint all at the same time.
So the teams are working hard to continue to drive innovation there, but also looking at what other elements can we fit into this architecture over time. And I think that's how we think about the long-term guide.
Our last question comes from the line of Jim Suva with Citigroup Global Markets.
It's Jim Suva from Citi. On your guidance of up 1 to 3, as talked about earlier, it's the first time you guys have seen year-over-year revenue growth for quite a long time. Kelly and Chuck, you've mentioned strength in orders and also the subscription model taking traction.
Are we now at a point where a shift to subscription is no longer dragging down year-over-year comps? Or that still a bit of a challenge in the orders that Chuck mentioned are just so much stronger? And Chuck, any end market areas we should think about for that order strength?
Yes, I'll take the first part. I'd say no. We're still, I'd say, growing the base of the offers faster and putting it on the balance sheet than it's coming off. But again, both the year-over-year increase of the balance of $5.2 billion was up 37%, and my income statement was up 37% as well. But I'm still putting more and more offers. And as we get scale through the core networking, not just on Switching but the whole DNA Center, I think that'll continue to add.
So it's still going to be a headwind. And as I said before, this 1.5 to 2 points will move to more like a 2 to 3 points in the upcoming years as we get more scale there. So more to come, but again, we're benefiting from -- we're starting to see the benefit of just having more stability and being able to have a better line of sight and less massive fluctuation by having that.
And Jim, just a market segment perspective that it's probably pretty clear. We saw service provider pretty much the same as it has been for some period of time. Our largest enterprise customers, which the way we define it, is really just an organizational segment that we have, we did see -- we saw negative mid-single digits there, which you saw on the slides.
In our commercial business, we saw 12% growth on a global basis, and it was double digits in every geography, which is always good to see. Our enterprise customers, what I would tell you is that they are -- they're some of the biggest customers who take the longest amount of time to evaluate new platforms and new capabilities like the network intuitive as well as this whole SD-WAN discussion. So we're actively in those discussions with the enterprise customers.
And our commercial customers tend to just move more quickly than others. And then finally, on the Public Sector side, which we didn't talk about a lot, I think, the big call-out there, I would say, is that 2 quarters ago, we talked about the pressure in the Federal, business. Last quarter, we said we saw it improving. And what I would tell you is that in this quarter, we saw the year end that was -- that seemed fairly normal.
While they still have a lot of leadership roles that haven't been filled and we still have the impending December debt ceiling issue, overall, for this quarter, we saw the federal business pretty much back to what we expected as we closed the quarter. So that's probably commentary I can provide on the market segments.
Okay. I think we are...
Well, that's it, isn't it?
Yes. We're going to wrap up.
Okay. I'll wrap it. Thanks, everyone, again for joining us today. I want to -- I just want to wrap with a few points. First off, we are committed to executing on this vision to deliver a highly secure, intelligent platform for our customers' digital business. And we are laser focused on 5 key elements of that strategy to enable our customer success and drive profitable growth for us and shareholder value as well.
First, we are fundamentally reinventing networking with our intent-based networking platform. We intend to further accelerate our leadership here, extending intuitive technologies across the broad portfolio that we have while increasing application visibility and automation.
Secondly, security is fundamental to everything we do. You can't build a next-generation digital business without a comprehensive security strategy across endpoints, network and the cloud. Third, it is very clear that it's a multi-cloud world, and Cisco is in a unique position to help our customers navigate this by expanding our multi-cloud portfolio and extending our web scale partnerships with strategic cloud providers.
Our Google partnership's an example of the work we are doing with all of the large web scale providers. Fourth, we're unlocking the power of the data with advanced analytics such as our solutions with AppDynamics, Encrypted Traffic Analytics and TELUS threat intelligence.
We are also embedding AI and machine learning technologies across the breadth of our portfolio. And lastly, we will continue to deliver a more enhanced customer and employee experience through our broad collaboration portfolio, including our intent to acquire BroadSoft.
Marilyn, I'll turn it back over to you.
Thanks, Chuck. Cisco's next quarterly earnings conference call, which will reflect our fiscal 2018 second quarter results, will be on Wednesday, February 14, 2018 at 1:30 p.m. Pacific time, 4:30 p.m. Eastern time. Again, I'd like to remind the audience that in light of Regulation FD, Cisco's policy is not to comment on its financial guidance during the quarter, unless it is done through an explicit public disclosure.
We now plan to close the call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to contact the Cisco Investor Relations Department, and we thank you very much for joining the call today.
Thank you for participating on today's conference call. If you would like to listen to the call in its entirety, you may call (866) 421-0447. For participants dialing from outside the U.S, please dial (203) 369-0803. This concludes today's call. You may disconnect at this time.