Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.
Great, thank you. I have a question for Sundar. I was wondering, I wanted to focus on the cloud business. When we speak with CIOs about GCP, they highlight in many cases the need for Google to improve upon its enterprise sales strategy. I'm just wondering if you could share with us the changes you've been making in that organization, and the goals that you have for the cloud business for 2017?
Thanks, Heather.  As I said in my opening remarks, I do think we are seeing tremendous momentum with our partnerships team, and how we are approaching a lot of new alliances which I talked about. So now we have teams dedicated to partnering with GSIs, and we have a team focused on technology partnerships, too. On the GSI front, we announced a new alliance with Accenture last September, to create industry solutions for a number of industries including retail.
So for me I think overall, everywhere I look at, we are establishing a world-class enterprise team. Partnerships has been a big focus, and I've seen progress there. I think, as I said in my remarks, overall 2017 I expect to have a lot of momentum, because we have moved well beyond the table stakes. Now we are really competing on areas which we think we have differentiation. I talked about data analytics and machine learning, security, and so on.
So I think we are well-positioned. The momentum, when we look at the numbers internally, and as well as the traction we see in competitive situations, I definitely think we are going to have a great year. And hopefully, in the next conference coming up, Diane and team will share a lot more details.
Thank you.
Eric Sheridan, UBS.
Thank you for taking the questions. Maybe first for Sundar. Now that you have this breadth of device ecosystem out there into the marketplace, I wanted to know if we can get a little more color about what your learnings about the adoption of the device ecosystem, how you are thinking about the go-to0market strategy over the medium to long term, and how we might see sort of an evolution across operating systems? And then if I can, maybe one for Ruth. You called out a one-time charge in, or a one-time impact on the number in the quarter. I wonder if we can get a little more granularity about what went into that one-time expense, so we can just factor that into the financials? Thank you.
Yes, Eric, I'm assuming, when you said the device ecosystem, you're talking about how our platforms are working at scale. The thing which I get excited about, is computing is increasingly moving, rather than just one device which is a dedicated computing device, to being there for users in their context. And you'll see computing increasingly embedded in many things, and we have a comprehensive strategy. We do want people -- we invest in it for the long run.
We are improving our computing experiences with machine learning. We expect to be there for users across -- across a device ecosystem. And we're also building things like Google Play to work across all of this, so that users can have one coherent experience. I think we see great momentum both across our partner ecosystem, as well as pushing the cutting edge of the experience, which is what we strive do with our own hardware devices. And so, I think the end-to-end strategy is working well for us.
And in terms of, you noted the one-time item, there were really two, that I'm actually going to call out. One was in the cost of revenues. I noted that equipment costs were elevated by some one-time charges, and so there was some pressure there. And then, the other item I noted was, with respect to our tax rate. I noted that there was a slightly elevated tax rate this quarter. It's always affected by the geographic mix of results, but we did have a discrete item that affected the US tax rate, just to make that clear.
Thank you. Mark Mahaney, RBC.
Thanks. Two questions, please. Again, Ruth, on that $320 million one-time charge, is there any more detail you can provide on that? It seems like a relatively sizeable amount.
And then, Sundar, if could you talk about voice search, particularly in the home and in the car, and the importance of getting devices out in the marketplace? And the challenge I'll throw to you is, it looks to me like Google devices are being outsold 10 to 1 or something like that in most -- in a lot of homes. And it's immaterial now, but I could see in five years, that there's a new voice search interface, and it's not Google in the home, that could be a real challenge for the Company. Thank you.
So on the first one, trying to be helpful in giving you dimension and impact on cost of sales, but really not much more to add there. I think the other point is, is you're thinking about the hardware business, it was gross margin positive. There was just some other variables in there.
And Mark, on voice search, we're really excited about it. I think it's a very natural way for users to interact. We think it will be one mode. Our users will have many different ways by which they interact with computing. And for voice, as you pointed out, we expect voice to work across many different contexts. So we're thinking about it phones, homes, TVs, cars, and trying to drive that ecosystem that way. And we want Google to be there for users when they need it.
And even with Google Home, we just launched it in Q4. We had a very strong quarter there, and we are going to invest a lot in it over 2017. It's very early days. When I look at what it would take to voice search well, our years of progress we have done in areas like natural language processing comes into play. And I think there is a lot of work ahead to make all of this work well for users. And this is the core area where we've invested in for the very long-term. And so, I feel very comfortable about how this would play out in the future.
Thank you.
Douglas Anmuth, JPMorgan.
Thanks for taking the question. Ruth, you commented on YouTube, and addressed some of the non-advertising revenue streams. I was just hoping you could elaborate there a little bit, what the goals would be there for your users? And then just to follow up on Mark's question on voice search.  I understand, Sundar, it's early, but how do you think about the challenges and opportunities from a monetization perspective in voice? Thanks.
So on the first question, in terms of YouTube as Sundar elaborated on my opening comments, we're really pleased with the ongoing strength we have there. As we've  talked about on prior calls it's largely driven by video, primarily trivia with a strong contribution from DoubleClick Bid Manager. And we are continuing to invest significantly in the business, given the importance of supporting the ecosystem of content creators, through partner payments, marketing, YouTube originals, YouTube spaces. We're broadening the platform, we're investing in the requisite infrastructure given machines and bandwidth required. And Sundar elaborated on some of the upside, we see there on the non-ad side.
And really the point, I was trying to stress consistent with Sundar's comments is, we got the non-ads momentum here on the YouTube side, and we're also seeing tremendous momentum with cloud which we're excited about, and the hardware and investing behind those. So those continue to build out the revenue streams, as we're looking in the near- to medium- to long-term.
And, Doug, I mean, just like Mark's question on voice search, I would encourage you to think about it as from a user's standpoint, they are looking for information, looking to get things done. The voice queries are one part of the total journey they are on. So when we think about something like the Google Assistant, we think about this as an ongoing conversation with our users across different contexts.
So they may ask a question on voice, later when they pick up their phone, they want connectivity, so we think of this as an end-to-end thing. What this means is that users engage more with us, more with computing, and look for more information. And I think, the trends we see are positive. So we think about it from a long-term perspective, and so I see more opportunity than challenge, when I think about voice search.
Great. Thank you.
Peter Stabler, Wells Fargo Securities.
Thanks very much. Another one on YouTube, if I could. Would it possible to get any sort of metrics around YouTube Red, and how the subscription business has been progressing, realizing you're not going to be providing that every quarter, but that you do occasionally give us benchmarks in the market? Thanks so much.
Well, at this point, we've launched in five countries. We're pleased with the early success, and it's still early days. It takes a while to build a subscription business here. And I'll pass it to Sundar for additional commentary.
Look, I mean, I think, I would think about it as how we are investing a lot in developing this premium experience in the way of YouTube Red, YouTube music, and we do offer it across Google Play music as well. You will see us invest more, more countries, more original content. And we'll bring together the experiences we have over the course of this year, so it's even more compelling for users. But we are seeing tractions, with the rate of sign-ups. We're not disclosing specific numbers, but I'm excited at the progress there.
Thank you.
Brian Nowak, Morgan Stanley.
Thanks for taking my questions. I have two. The first one, just to back to YouTube. I appreciate the color around the content. Would be curious to here about how you think philosophically about partnering with more premium content players, to maybe drive even higher engagement and even better YouTube experience? And then the second one, if you step back into your mobile search business and the verticals, the innovation you've had at retail, and travel with shopping and hotel finder, I guess, I'd be curious to hear about where you see the biggest potential for more improvements in certain verticals, for an even more relevant and higher search result experience over the next years? Thanks.
On your first question, look, I mean, we think of YouTube again as an ecosystem. We are trying to connect creators with users, form a community, and so we work hard to bring more premium content. We already work with TV networks and their individual shows, whether it's a late night show like James Corden or Jimmy Fallon, afternoon shows like Ellen, sports programming like NBA and NFL. For example, sports is one of the most popular verticals, we have hundreds of sports partnership in place. And so, we'll continue to invest that way, and drive the premium content there.
On the second one,  if we do look at the [internal] experience, look at what are the kinds of tasks which users are trying to get done, how mobile raises the bar, we want to provide those deeper experiences for users. And so, I generally, think local is a big area. We have strong assets there with maps. And so, we think about how we can improve the local experience a lot more for users. So for example, within local areas like dining, we work closely with our partners to make that better. So we get it at a pretty granular level, and we try to hit all of the areas. And so, I think you'll see progress in all these areas over the next few years.
Okay. Great. Thanks.
Anthony DiClemente, Nomura.
Hi, thanks for taking my questions. Yes, just on YouTube, would love to hear about pricing, and then also about ad [lists]. So is there anything you can highlight on ad formats? And specifically, we noticed that recently you're enabling markers to target YouTube ads based on search. And so, I just want to hear about that strategy, and maybe relatedly the recently announced the non-typical YouTube ad format, would love to kind of hear about that? Thanks for taking my questions.
Look, overall, I would say, there's been a -- been very pleased with how the team has been driving innovation in ad formats, and the ad experiences. I think, we're [realizing] that it's very early day. We see whenever -- [we are obviously in an] innovation phase, and advertiser response to all of these new formats has been really positive. So for example, our bumper ads, our six second video format that we launched is already being used by thousands of accounts, including major brands like Universal Pictures and Netflix.
On your question around, how we think about the experience across screens, it's really important to understand users consume on YouTube across screens, and so they experience consistent experience. And similarly from an advertising standpoint, we want that to be thoughtful for users, more relevant across screens as well. And so, that's the context in which we do this.
We give users control over that experience, but I do think as part of these changes, advertisers can get more detailed insights from their YouTube campaigns across devices. So they can better understand the impact of their marketing campaigns. So I think it's early days, but I think it's the right direction, and I think we'll see good traction from it.
Michael Nathanson, Moffett.
Thanks, I have two, one for Sundar, and one for Ruth. Sundar, sticking on the YouTube questions, there was a report that YouTube and CBS had agreed on an agreement to distribute CBS on YouTube. Can you talk a bit if that is -- actually happened? And if so, what is the opportunity to partner with networks, and how will that evolve over time?
Look, I can't comment on any specific discussions, but I said a little bit earlier, we are constantly working with partners across these areas. We work very closely with TV networks on their individual shows. It 's a big part of the YouTube experience, and so you'll see us work hard to make these partnerships deeper, and bring more content to our users. So maybe I'll leave it at that.
Okay. And then, for Ruth, you mentioned programmatic drove the network numbers revenue growth this quarter. If you look at fourth quarter this year and last year, there seems to be an acceleration in Q4, and then it comes back. I wonder, what's happening seasonally to that revenue line, that drives fourth quarter up so much?
Well, as we've talked about on prior calls, there are obviously, a number of businesses within the network line, and a number of things went right this quarter. I wouldn't extrapolate from it. As you noted that, there can be some seasonality, and Q1 is typically lower than the fourth quarter.
I think the main point is that the programmatic business continues to be a strong contributor, with significant growth reflecting the ongoing advertiser adoption, just given the overall efficiency of programmatic and improved targeting and benefit of inventory growth. And so, the story, it's pretty much unchanged. We continue to see the growth in programmatic, offset by the declines in the more traditional businesses. And when you're looking at the quarter-over-quarter, you're continuing to see things like the impact of policy changes, and timing of product launches. But I just think that there were a number of things that went well this quarter. Q3 was a bit lighter, so that then [flattered] the quarter-over-quarter comparison, but I wouldn't extrapolate from this.
Okay. Thanks.
Lloyd Walmsley, Deutsche Bank.
Thanks. Wondering, Sundar, if you could just give us a sense on the Pixel phone hardware opportunity to kind of build direct mobile distribution, and capture hardware margin? And how you think about that versus the potential disruption, that having your own handset at a bigger scale could cause in the Android ecosystem? Do you think this is something that can get meaningful market share without disrupting the ecosystem? And then, a second follow-up related to this would be, on the Pixel phones, with Google Assistant having been built uniquely into the core of the experience, is there anything you're learning as the usage of that increases? Is it driving a step function increase in engagement with the hardware/software integration? Thanks.
Look, I mean, we are in early days. I think it's really important when you work on a platform, you have to drive it forward. So we have always done by putting out the state-of-the-art. And I think it especially gets important in the vision we have for computing, where users are going to use it across many different contexts. And so, to do that end-to-end experience, it spans devices. So I think it's important for us to work at the intersection of hardware, software and services. And so, that is how we think about it.
And I think that we invest a lot more in our ecosystem. And I mentioned earlier, I'm incredibly excited at the line-up we for this year from our partners. So we do both, and we're very thoughtful about it. I think the scale at which we are doing it, shows it's working. And I'm confident, we'll be able to strike the balance well.
In terms of Google Assistant on the Pixel, along with how search works, I think definitely, it gives us a way to iterate and move faster, and make sure it's working better for users. Our thesis is that as we -- as we make it easier for users to have Google at their fingertips across what they are doing, and including many modes, whether they are typing or asking Google a question, we find that it overall benefits. And so, it'll be a long-term trend, but I think our earlier [research] show that our intuition is right there, and so we'll continue approaching it that way.
Thank you.
Stephen Ju, Credit Suisse.
Okay. Thank you. So Sundar, you called out Google Play growth at emerging markets in your prepared remarks. So I thought from revenue size standpoint, it would be one of the big bets you would highlight. But I was wondering how you view your own instant apps, as well as products from some other operators to let consumers try apps, either in a Messenger product, or in an HTML5 environment? Do these innovations present an opportunity, or a challenge for you at a play franchise? Secondarily, it seems like the recurring theme in your prepared remarks is how AI is making the consumer products better. Is there anything you can share, in terms of how it may be making monetization better? Thank you.
So on Google Play for me, what makes it work well is, just with the vision of computing we have been talking about how it works across context. You need an ecosystem -- you need an apps and services ecosystem to work cohesively across all of this. And that's what I like about how we are approaching Google Play. And you saw us this quarter, see Google Play work beyond Android phones, they're coming to Chromebooks, they're working Daydream, they're working Android Wear. And so, it's an end-to-end thing which works well.
And that's the most important thing, so that as a user you know whether you're engaging with a game or a TV show, that you can get it reliably get it across your computing experiences. And we'll adapt, and I think we will drive innovations in play to go where, what's right for users and developers, and so, be it instant apps, or driving better HTML5 experiences. We invest in all that, and I think we'll move it all forward.
On your second question, about how machine learning and AI is improving our monetization, it definitely, just like we had many, many launches last year, which involved machine learning being incorporated across Google including our monetization products. And our monetization teams at Google have always been at the cutting edge of, what I would call [out], as machine learning techniques from early days on. And so, they are doing it. It is early days, now but I think we already have really new insights. And so, we'll bake it in, over the course of the year.
Thank you.
Ken Sena, Evercore.
Hi, just maybe another question on YouTube. Can you expand on the decision this quarter to remove third-party cookie and Pixel activity? It looks like as though you're favoring something much more identity-based, and maybe you could just think through the -- or explain a bit about the impetus there, and maybe the trade-offs for marketers, that would be great? Thank you very much.
I spoke about it a bit earlier, but I think it's important that we evolve all of this from a user-centric standpoint. And users have an identity, they have preferences. And so, for example, think about it from a user standpoint, if they don't like one particular ad, or they don't want to see an ad from a particular advertiser, they want it work across that experience, across their cross-device experience. So we think about it that way. And so, we're working towards a long-term experience that's right for users, and which I think will make sense for advertisers reaching users too. So I think we are evolving it jointly and thoughtfully giving users control. And I think that's the right way to approach it over time.
Okay. Thank you very much.
Justin Post, Merrill Lynch.
Thank you. I would like to ask first a question about ad coverage and click rates. Maybe just your thoughts on potential to increase ad coverage now, that you have a fourth link. Is there still room to help ad clicks with coverage increases? And just as you think out to this year, how do you feel about the innovation pipeline in ads? Do you think there is a lot more you can still do in search? And then two, housekeeping for you, Ruth. Maybe you could just let us know what kind of equipment was written off, so we can think how recurring that might be? And any comment on the buyback activity in the quarter? Thank you.
On the -- on our monetization efforts, our teams always have been very thoughtful about planning, not just for the short-term, but planning for the long-term. We don't start the year, thinking our plan is to increase ad coverage or something like that, right? We are -- we have many experiments in the pipeline. We see how user behavior is evolving. And in conjunction with that, we evolve our ad experience. So for example, as people use mobiles, scroll more, et cetera, the user behavior changes, and we adapt to that in a very, very disciplined way.
So last year, you saw us maybe increase coverage in a certain way. For example, in desktop we removed ads on the right-hand side, and so we take a very holistic approach to these things. For me, I do think we have a lot of head room ahead. I still look at where most of transactions happen, and how the secular transformation is under way. And so, I think we see -- we have a lot more headroom left, and Ruth talk about --?
And in terms of your second question, really not much more to add on the first part. In terms of the buyback, we weren't able to commence it on the fourth quarter due to trading restrictions, but we do look forward to getting back into the market.
Thank you.
Thank you, and I'm showing no further questions at this time.
Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again on our first quarter 2017 call.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you may all disconnect. Have a great day, everyone.