Pierre Ferragu, Bernstein.
Hi.  Thank you for taking my question. I was trying to understand where we stand in the weakness you saw when you talked about three months ago. If I look at your guide, it's very encouraging.  It shows that you were getting back to a sequential growth that is better than slightly above what you have done on average in recent years. And then, if I hear your comments, Campus was very weak in the quarter.  Routing as well.  And, you see orders coming back in routing.  My question would be whether you see something similar in Campus?  Can we expect that part of the business to improve in coming months and coming quarters?  And then, maybe just more broadly, what's your feeling about the macro today?  The uncertainty and the weakness in orders you could see three months ago, is this something that is improving now, already?
Thanks, Pierre. Let me just start, and then, Kelly, you can add whatever you like here.  I think as it relates to our core portfolio, we have seen, obviously, some macro dynamics. Europe is clearly stressed with all the geopolitical dynamics that are occurring in Europe right now across several countries. And we also have begun to invest pretty significantly over the last year, and you'll  see it over the coming year, in ensuring we had the appropriate investments in innovation in our core.  But, you also see what we did with AppDynamics, and what I would tell you is that when you combine the analytics that we can deliver out of the data center with the analytics that we will deliver out of the core networking space with our security threat information and analytics out of our security portfolio combined with the application analytics that they have, we believe that we can create a differentiated architecture for our customers going forward.  And, that's what we are -- that's the purpose in the acquisition and what we intend to do going forward. So, Kelly, any other comments on the macro and the sequentials?
No. I think just to add to that, I think, we do feel good about what we're seeing from macro in the US certainly and in commercial and enterprise. And, I would say to your point, Pierre, when you do adjust for that extra week last year, we are -- our guide -- we always call it like we see it, and it does show a bit of improvement there on both the top line and bottom line. So, I think like Chuck said, I think that the US is solid, and again, we're still cautious on outside the US and Europe and Asia.
Great.  Thanks, Kelly. Sam, we will go ahead and take our next question.
James Suva, Citi.
This is Justin on for Jim Suva.  Thanks, Chuck and Kelly, for taking the question. I was just wondering if you could comment a little bit on your partnership with Ericsson?  I know recently you've had a couple of different rollouts and then some good press releases in terms of what you are doing. I'm just wondering if you could maybe provide any updates or any milestones now that it's been about a year since you've had the partnership going? Thanks.
I think it was Justin, right?  Justin, thanks for the question. It's pretty timely. In fact, we -- obviously, there's been a lot of uncertainty on the Ericsson side, and we believe that all the original business drivers that led us to establish the partnership with Ericsson are still very valid. I think we have had some 300 customer engagements together, and their new CEO came on board just about five weeks ago, I believe. And, we have been in a great deal of discussion since then on ways in which we could accelerate the partnership.  He is committed to continuing and trying to make this as successful as we possibly can.  We're going to meet again in Barcelona at Mobile World Congress, and I would say we're focused right now on how do we accelerate from here.
Thanks, Justin. Sam will go ahead and take the next question please.
Paul Silverstein, Cowen and Company.
If I could ask for a quick clarification and then a question. Kelly, I think last quarter you quantified the impact of the shift in the business model is over 2 percentage points in terms of the hit to growth as you increase your future visibility on the shift. Can you update -- I don't think I heard you give an update this quarter?
I think what I say is between 1% and 2%. So, we are in that 1.5% to 2% range.
Okay, and would that be your expectation on an ongoing basis?
Again, as we continue to accelerate the growth -- as we're continuing to grow it like we have been growing -- I referred it.  It may get even more until it evens out, but in the last few quarters, it has been in that range.
Thanks, Paul. Sam, we will take the next question.
Mitch Steves, RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks for taking my question. I want to circle back on the security piece.  You have given out advanced threat numbers in the past and the breakdown there. So, how does the margin structure change as you grow the advanced threat and the web security piece versus the legacy security portfolio that you've had?
We don't share gross margins by businesses, but I can tell you the margins are growing in our security portfolio overall between the mix of the growth in these areas and the acquisitions of the SaaS businesses we've been adding. So, it's very accretive to the Cisco average.
Just one quick, small follow-up. Just on a repatriation potential, are you leaning more towards essentially M&A or buybacks or a dividend because you have raised it by 12% now.  Just wondering how you think about that?
Mitch, first priority will be strategic investments that we will make, and then, obviously, followed with a focus on continued capital allocation and our commitment to returning capital to shareholders.  It would be a combination.
Thanks, Chuck. Sam, let's go ahead and tee up for the next question.
Jeff Kvaal, Nomura.
Yes.  Thank you very much for taking the question.  One of the big themes with some of the other folks across the [com] landscape is web scale. That wasn't a major theme of the opening script. I am hoping that you could help us understand your positioning in web scale.  Certainly in switching where the competition is heightened and also in routing and even DCI. Thank you.
Thanks, Jeff. So, as we look at MSDC what we've given you over the last few quarters is a very fixed list of 10 customers that we have given. And, I have said over and over that we have been spending a lot of time with these customers, really focused on understanding what their unique needs are.  Frankly, some of them are so big they are a market of one unto themselves, and I'm very pleased with the progress we're making. If you look at those 10 just to give you the numbers this time. Overall, those 10 would be down, but if you normalize out one of those providers and you take the combination of the other nine, and that one had some pretty tough year-over-year comps. The other nine were up double digits, and we have one of the largest that was up triple digits for the second quarter in a row. So, I feel like we are making good progress, but we still have a long way to go.
Thanks for the question, Jeff.  We will go ahead and take the next question, Sam.
Ittai Kidron, Oppenheimer.
Thanks. Chuck, appreciate the opportunity. I guess I'm going to sound like a broken record and ask the same question I've asked over four or five quarters now which is your data center revenue. Your server business which has again continued to stay in range. Not showing much progress. How do you feel about the progress that you are making over there with hyperconverged?  It just doesn't seem to be moving the dial [be it]?  How do you resolve the issues in this business going forward?
Thanks, Ittai. We can always count on you for that question.  (laughter) First of all, I think in our next-gen data center switching portfolio, you can see continued performance and continued good adoption of those solutions from our customer base. I think on the hyperconverged, we certainly would like to see it moving more quickly. We have recently had a release of software that has helped with some of the capabilities, and I think that there are a couple more coming that should continue to give us more capabilities in that space.  I think that we are also looking, as you would expect, at our broad strategy in the data center and where we need to go to ensure that we best position ourselves going forward. So, that work is going on as well right now, Ittai.
Thanks, Chuck.  Sam, let's go ahead and tee up the next question.
Vijay Bhagavath, Deutsche Bank Securities.
Thanks. Hi Chuck, Kelly. I'd like to get bigger picture thoughts, Chuck and Kelly, on how you plan to broaden your senior management team?  Any new areas or skill sets you will be looking for in the management team to drive profit and growth through the rest of this year and over the next few years?  And, is the strategy focused primarily on doubling down on security, analytics, AI, automation?
Vijay, don't mean to interrupt.  Can you speak up just a little bit?
We're having trouble hearing you.
Can you hear me now?
Not really. Try a little louder.
Okay. Is this better?
That's better.
Okay. Chuck, my question was more on the senior management team. Any new skill sets, any new areas or avenues you will be looking for to round out the management team to drive top line growth?  Or, will you primarily be doubling down on security, analytics, AI? Thank you.
It's a great question. I think that when you look at the improvement we've been making around our transition to software and subscription business, you can assume that we will continue to look for people who have those kinds of capabilities.  And, if you look at even the AppDynamics acquisition, David Wadhwani, who is their CEO, was one of the key drivers behind the software transition that occurred at Adobe so he very much understands how this transition will occur. You can assume that we are adding talent in the areas of artificial intelligence, machine learning, analytics, software skills around simplicity and automation.  As you know if you look at our core, one of the biggest things are customers are looking for is to take out the cost of operating this infrastructure. And so, as we build out automation capabilities that allow them to very dynamically change their environments as opposed to the manual way it has been done in the past -- those skill sets as well. So, it's a combination of all those in addition to security and all the other areas you mentioned. So, it's broad-based.
Thanks for the question, Vijay. We'll go ahead and take the next question.
Steve Milunovich, UBS Securities.
Thank you. Kelly, you mentioned the percentage of recurrent revenues, 31%.  If you exclude services, are we still around 9% to 10% of product revenue being recurring?  And, is there any way to turn that core routing switching business into something more recurring?  We've never seen a hardware Company do that, if you will.  But, through ELAs or something else, is there any way to turn that into little more of a subscription -- consistent basis?
That's a great question, Steve. So, actually, product as a percentage of my total product revenue -- it is up to 10% now this quarter for the first time. So, we're happy about that. And, we are trying to make that shift in the core part of the business. Cisco 1 is an example of where we are taking our ELAs and our big cross-enterprise ELAs that really are our core networking business to do that. So, we're trying to find ways to find other offers.
I will just point to another example though like the Spark Board that Chuck mentioned. It's a great new innovation and extension of TelePresence, but it's a great example of where we are selling that -- we used to sell it always as a system, now we're selling the equipment. But, we are selling it with a subscription. So, that's an example of how we have been able to drive new offers that had been traditionally just pure system or hardware. And, again, the teams are driving hard to find more ways to accelerate new offers that way.
Steve, I want to just make a couple comments on this. One, if you look -- six quarters ago when I came into the job, our overall revenue -- our recurring revenue was 26%.  In the first four quarters, we spent time taking our teams and helping our teams understand the transition that we were going to make. So, in the first four quarters, we gained 2 points.  We took it up to 28%, and in the last two quarters, we've added 3 points. So, we've accelerated it.  It has gone to 31% in the last two quarters. And, on the product side, that went from 6% to 7% in the first year, and then in the last two quarters, it's gone from 7% to 10%. I think we are finding ways to move that forward.
As it relates to the core, I think you'll see us come out with services around automation and analytics and other things that will be sold as subscriptions on top of the platforms. And, the last thing I will tell you is that we pulled some of -- one of the key leaders from the security portfolio who had really driven the whole product management portion of that transition to the heavy content of software and subscription that you see today, and he is now leading that for us in our core networking space in the enterprise networking. So, it's clearly a focus that he is trying to drive for us.
We will take the next question.
Mark Moskowitz, Barclays.
Thanks.  Good afternoon.  Just following up on the cash repatriation M&A question, Chuck. Just want to get a sense going forward, should we think about a continuation of more of the string of pearls approach similar to AppDynamics?  Or, can you make more sizable acquisitions? And then, Kelly, I wanted to get a sense if you could help us understand how we should think about deferred revenue, clearly growing nicely.  What is the feedback loop 1 year, 1.5 years out from now in terms of does gross margin start to trend higher because of the deferred revenue mix is becoming [richer] in configuration? Thank you.
Mark, first off, I'll take the repatriation and the M&A question, and Kelly, you can take the next one. So, you are free to make comments on mine as well. (laughter) I think our M&A strategy is going to remain intact. Repatriation doesn't fundamentally change how we think about what we're going to do going forward. You can assume that we will continue to look for opportunities to drive the business value and the relevance to our customers like we did with AppD.  They have a tremendous platform that really translates application analytics to real business performance information for our customers.
And, just to comment on AppDynamics, they have a very robust enterprise solution that is delivered either from the cloud or on-premise and can be delivered to the customer on-premise or in the cloud. So, it's very flexible. And, they basically have 275 of the Fortune 2000, and they really have never had a substantial partner model. Those are the reasons we think that makes a lot of sense. So, strategic alignment and the ability for us to take it through our ecosystem are always positive. Kelly, comments on the deferred and the margins?
On the deferred, Mark, that is part of why we're trying to make this shift to software. Our customers want those offers and to have an easier way to run their IT departments. It clearly enables us to get higher margins, for sure. And, it's not only just the gross margins coming out of deferred revenue, but we are looking at our whole end-to-end operations and how we go to market, how we drive operations in the back end here.  And, there is really opportunities to drive both gross margins and operating margins. So, that's why we are so focused on it.  That's why we are looking at acquisitions to add to it, and it will continue to help improve our mix on the margins line.
Thanks, Chuck and Kelly. Sam, let's go ahead and take the next question.
James Faucette, Morgan Stanley.
Thank you very much. I just wanted to ask about product gross margins. They were a bit weaker than we had at least modeled, and I think in the 8-K, there's some indication that there was some pricing. But, I would like some more color there. Particularly, one thing that we noticed that the APAC margins were look particularly weak.  Is this related to customer, geography?  Just a little help on understanding where the pressures are on [product gross] margin?
Sure, I will take that one and a great question. Gross margins, we have been -- again, continue to operate well. I will say there were two specific headwinds that we faced this quarter. And, to your point on APJC, I will refer back to a year ago we were benefiting from a national program in China where they were rolling out set-top boxes to tier 2 and tier 3 cities. Not our set-top boxes, but we were providing the smart cards to go with that which were -- they are basically for secure access, and it was very, very high margin. So, we had if you go back a year ago, SP Video in Asia was extremely strong because of that. That program has dramatically slowed down.  And, again, that pure margin just isn't there any more, and you are seeing that flow through both the margins and the year-over-year revenues for both SP Video and APJC.
The other item that's a headwind for us this quarter is we are facing a significant cost increase to our memory costs -- our DRAM memory costs that we are paying.  It's a very tight supply right now. And, we are seeing dramatic increases there. So, that's hurting us quite a bit as well. But, other than that, I would say the color is in the same line.  Our pricing is in the ranges that we have been the last six to eight quarters.   I'd say a little on the higher end, but in line with where we were Q3, Q4. A little worse than last quarter, but we were very low last quarter. So, in the normal ranges. It really those two specific things. I will say that I do anticipate those two headwinds to remain there next quarter as well as we had very strong SP Video -- that China program in Q3 as well.
Let's go ahead and take the next question, Sam.
Jess Lubert, Wells Fargo Securities.
Hi.  Thanks for taking my question and congrats on a nice quarter. First, just had a clarification.  There were a number of articles regarding a faulty clocking component over the last few weeks.  Just wanted to see if you could comment to what degree that is or isn't impacting customer activities?  And then, the question -- I was hoping you might be able to update us in a little greater detail regarding the trends you're seeing in the service provider vertical?  You mentioned some encouraging order development?   So, was hoping you could help us understand what you are seeing across geographies?  What you are seeing from a product perspective?  And, to what degree that improvement is coming from routing optical security or some other part of the service provider business?
Sure. I will start on the supplier component issue. So, yes, those articles are out there. We have had an issue from a supplier come out. And, we did book a reserve for $125 million you can see in our GAAP results and in the press release to cover that. We always and continue to stand by our customers through any situations like this.  This is very proactive. This is a failure rate that will happen over time, but we are working with our customers to work through that so we're not anticipating any impact from that from a top line perspective.
I will take the SP portion, Kelly. So, Jess, on the service provider space, it's really similar to last time. We talked about SP CapEx -- different service providers are looking at different areas of investment depending on what's going on in their network.  So, you have some who are looking at macro radio densification as an example, and others are looking at building out capacity in the quarter. And so, we have -- and it's a segment that is very dominated by large customers.
So, from a quarter-to-quarter basis, any number of customers that make any shift in their buying behavior can have an impact either positively or negatively.  It's a space that I will just encourage you to look at longer term, but we did see -- we saw a definite improvement. We saw -- I would say from a regional perspective what I would tell you is the Americas was very strong.  And, we saw general weakness in Europe and then the China space you had a lot of this SP Video implication that Kelly was talking about earlier. So, overall, I think the teams did a great job. We have -- I think the teams are working incredibly well on the next generation of capabilities in the platforms and in some of the software and automation and some of the same themes that we've been talking about in the enterprise core networks.  I feel good about where they are right now.
Thanks for the question, Jess. We'll go ahead and take the next question, Sam.
Simon Leopold, Raymond James.
Great.  Thank you for taking my question here. I wanted a little bit of hand-holding and help with interpreting this deferred revenue growth. 51%, obviously, a very big number. Looking at the balance sheet, it looks like it rose year-over-year by about $1.9 billion, and you talked about the total of software and recurring revenue at $4 billion. Could you help us get a better understanding of what are the components?  And, I'm presuming there are some elements that maybe are growing much slower, some growing faster.  So, help us understand what are the big drivers for that 51% growth. Thank you.
Sure. So, that 51% growth is year-over-year growth of over $1.3 billion. And, everything is growing in that space. I would say from a pure size, collaboration and security and Meraki are the biggest pieces of that because they have just continued to grow their businesses significantly, and they are all growing huge double digits. But, I will also say my switching and my routing as well as data center, we've done fiscal one bundles as well as big enterprise license agreements.  They've also been growing huge double digits as well. So, at the end of the day, the year-over-year increases across the board, everything is up massively to drive to that 51%.  And, again, just the biggest chunk of it between collaboration, security, and wireless, they are two-thirds I would say of the balance but the other pieces -- .
Wireless being Meraki.
Wireless being Meraki, yes. Hopefully, that gives you the color you are looking for.
All right.  Thanks, Kelly. Sam, let's go ahead and take that next question.
Jayson Noland, Robert Baird. Okay, great.  Thank you.  Kelly, just to clarify. There is no expectation of revenue or earnings impact from this clock issue in the current quarter?
Not as of right now. Again, we're working very proactively with our customers in terms of how quickly and where they want to do their replacement. So, we're working very, very closely.  But, as of right now, we have not seen and don't anticipate any massive revenue impact from this.
All right. Thank you. That was our last question for today. I'm going to turn it over to Chuck for some closing remarks.
Just a couple of comments, and first of all, I want to just thank you all again for joining us today. We did deliver strong innovation, I believe, which was reflective in the performance that we've had in security collaboration, next-gen data center, and we continue to drive innovation in our core enterprise and SP portfolio. The deferred revenue from our subscription and software business is indicative, I think, of the transition that you should continue to expect from us. We will continue to focus on driving profitable growth with productivity and operational efficiencies, and you also can count on the fact that we remain very committed to our shareholder return as was indicated in both our buybacks and our dividend, and then, the increase in the dividend this quarter. So, I just want to thank all of you for being with us today.  And then, Marilyn, I will let you take it from here.  Thank you.
Thank you, Chuck. Cisco's next quarterly earnings conference call which will reflect all our FY17 third quarter results will be on Wednesday, May 17, 2017 at 1.30 PM Pacific time, 4.30 PM  Eastern time. Again, I'd like to remind the audience that in light of regulation FD, Cisco's policy is not to comment on its financial guidance during the quarter unless it is done through an explicit public disclosure. We now plan to close the call. If you have any further questions, feel free to reach out and contact the Cisco investor relations group, and we thank you very much for joining the call today.
Thank you for participating on today's conference call. If you would like to listen to the call in its entirety, you may call 1-866-357-1423. For participants dialing from outside the US, please dial 1-203-369-0115. This concludes today's call. You may disconnect at this time.