Thanks, Amy. We'll now move to the Q&A portion of today's call. Operator, can you please repeat your instructions?
Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
Keith Weiss, Morgan Stanley.
Excellent. Very nice quarter, guys. Thank you for taking the questions.
I wanted to ask a question about LinkedIn -- what our expectations should be for achieving revenues synergies on LinkedIn. It seems like there's a lot of real interesting things you can do with that asset, and combining with your own portfolio. And how should we think about the potential for achieving some expense synergies?
Obviously, there's a big cloud base that you could utilize under their assets, and Amy [being bullish] and very good at keeping expenses very well-managed. So, as we go forward past the [forward] quarter, how should we think about the timeframe for achieving those benefits?
Let me start, and then I'll turn it over to Amy to talk about the specifics of the synergies. The core focus, Keith, for us to start with, is to ensure that the innovation roadmap we have is all driving member value. The core ethos of LinkedIn needs to be about member first, how do we increase the engagement on the mobile flagship application, as well as the revamped desktop experience that is now rolling out.
We think that that's at the core of being able to, in fact, then have all of the revenue growth in their business solutions, which across higher markets sell. So, that's how I see it. It's a two-sided market, which starts with the help of membership and member engagement.
That is where the product roadmap, whether it's the integration with Office 365 or Dynamics 365 -- we'll be staying focused on it. We expect to see that rollout pretty rapidly. And as far as the guidance we've given at close, in terms of what to expect, for example, around EPS impact -- those are things that we'll stay committed to. And I'll let Amy add more to it.
Yes, I think Satya is correct. The guidance we gave at the time of the announcement in terms of EPS solution, excluding the impact of purchase accounting, being minimally dilutive, 1%, plus or minus, stands. Including the goal to achieve synergies where they make sense, as we continue to focus on growing the core business and keeping it incredibly healthy and realizing the revenue synergies that we know exist across the businesses.
As a reminder, the two biggest impacts of purchase accounting -- one, is it does impact the deferred revenue. So the in-quarter revenue in the guidance will look a bit lower due to that, as well as the amortization of intangible expenses, which also hit. We'll take care to give you insight into those so that you can continue to hold us against the goals we set for ourselves.
Thank you, Keith. We'll move to the next question, please, operator.
Brent Thill, UBS.
Thanks. There are a number of investors that have been wondering about the sales reorg that takes place February 1. Perhaps this is being worried and overstated. Can you just give us a sense -- are there changes that are happening that will take place February 1 that are different, or is this a minor tweak to the go-to-market going forward?
I can comment on it. I'm not particularly sure exactly what is happening on February 1.
But, I would say the overall change that we're going through -- and this is been ongoing for, I would say, the last multiple years -- is transforming our field engagement model, where we are putting a lot more technical depth in the front line sellers so that they can engage. Whether it's data specialists, cloud specialists, security specialists, or even productivity specialists. Because it's super important for us in this phase, when people are looking for solutions to help them digitally transform, for us to have a very fundamentally different type of capability in terms of our sales.
And that's the transformation. We have really reorganized ourselves, both in the headquarters and the in the field to be able to recognize such shift. What used to be large accounts for us, for example, are not by PC count anymore. And that's a pretty fundamental change.
It's by consumption of cloud capacity, in many cases. And this is happening all over the world. So, that's the transformation that you will increasingly see us push forward.
And no status quo on any part of Microsoft's organization should be counted on. If anything, we'll push to make sure that we are addressing what is our growth opportunities pretty aggressively.
And I think, Brent, in terms of there being a date -- or a particular date -- this is something, to Satya's point, we've been doing in a step function improvement over time for the past couple years. And we'll continue to do it.
The guidance certainly doesn't imply any type of slowdown in the commercial business. In fact, in some ways it actually includes an acceleration in certain areas. I think that's how I tend to look at it.
Thank you.
Thanks Brent. We'll take the next question, please.
Thank you. Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.
Great. Thank you very much. Amy, you noted a material improvement in Azure margins this quarter. I was just wondering if you could share with us -- given how quickly revenue is growing in this area, how fast can we see margins ramp, which obviously were negative.
And now that you're getting to some big revenue numbers, is there any reason why, at a similar revenue scale you shouldn't be able to match the gross margins of what AWS -- what you can back into from the financials of AWS? Can you walk us through the puts and takes? And then once you hit that scale point, is it something that we should see inflect pretty quickly? Thank you.
Thanks, Heather. Let me start by saying, we really do think about and talk about our cloud as containing all of the components. From the IS layer to the platform layer to the SaaS layer. You'll hear us talk about Dynamics 365, Office 36t, as well as our Azure Core and Premium services.
So, when I think about the material gross margin improvement we saw on Azure, it continues the path we've actually been on. Where we've been discussing, as you continue to see customers ask for us and our help in managing their digital estate consistently, securely, through one interface, you'll actually see growth across all components of that cloud.
It benefits margin, not just in Azure, but across, actually, the entirety of the cloud. That 2 point year-over-year increase in the commercial cloud gross margin really, even with the massive growth in Azure over the course of the year, certainly implies the improvement that we expected.
But, I tend to think you will consistently hear both Satya and I refer to our cloud in its entirety. But I do respect people always wonder, so I did comment that we saw material improvement in Azure, specifically
Great. Thank you.
Thanks, Heather. We'll take the next call please.
Thank you. Karl Keirstead, Deutsche Bank.
Thank you. Amy, I'm going to ask another question on gross margins, but this time at the Microsoft level. Your prior guidance was for ex-LinkedIn FY17 gross margins to be down 100 basis points. So the quarter you just posted gross margins ex-LinkedIn were actually up. And if I ran the math accurately, it looks like for your March quarter, ex-LinkedIn you're expecting gross margins to be about flat.
It feels like you are outperforming the core Microsoft gross margin guidance you gave before. Are you sticking with the down 100, or has that improved? And if it has, what are the one or two biggest drivers of the gross margins feeling a little bit better, ex-LinkedIn? Thank you.
Thanks, Karl. I am sticking with it being about 1 point. That is the guidance we gave and, even inclusive of LinkedIn, I continue to believe it is about 1 point. So, in some ways I guess you could say it implies a slightly better at the Company level, if that's how you're thinking about it.
Really Karl, what can drive that, in addition to the overall gross margin improvement we talk about in the cloud, it's also really the strength we see in our Windows business. And I mean that, not just in our OEM business, but also across the commercial business for Windows. That tends to have a very good margin profile.
And as we continue to improve the margin profile of our devices, we continue to see the OEM business health improve. And, actually, we continue to see the growth in the consumer services around the transactions that run through Xbox.
That's also good margin business for us that looks quite different than the hardware profile. So, all of those can impact it, Karl, as we look through the rest of the year. But in general, inclusive of LinkedIn, I'm still around 100 BPS.
Got it. Thanks, Amy.
Thank you, Karl. Next question, please.
Thank you. Mark Moerdler, Bernstein Research.
Thank you. Congrats on the strong quarter and thanks for taking the question. So, Amy, the on-premise server and tools business grew 5%, 7% in constant currency. It was obviously helped by Windows Server 2016, Sequel Server 2016.
How should we think about, on a longer-term horizon over the next 12 months or even longer -- how those two should help on the on-premise isis or annuity business on the cloud and Azure? How should we think about the impact of that? Thanks.
Thanks, Mark. Let me start by saying it's why we tend to focus all up at that server products and services KPI being double digits. Generally, an easier way for us to talk about it all up between Azure and the OnPrem business.
But let me talk a little bit about what impacted the transactional business this quarter. And then we can talk about how to think about it in Q3 and maybe going forward. We did, and we're encouraged by the customer reaction -- even our transactional customers -- to the security and management value prop, as well as the hybrid nature of our Sequel and Windows Server 2016 releases that have taken place this year.
That value prop is resonating. We saw some growth. I feel very good about that. And so I do think that can have an impact in H2.
You heard me talk a little bit about it. With the major currency changes we saw in Q2, we've also done some price adjustments between certain geos for us. It did pull forward a bit of revenue into Q2.
And so it will be a bit of a drag on Q3, which is taken into account in the guide. But, I would reiterate, the biggest driver of the transactional performance this quarter was really the value prop people saw.
Excellent. Thank you so much. I appreciate it.
Thank you, Mark. We'll take the next question, please.
Walter Pritchard, Citi.
Hi. Thanks, Amy. I'm wondering if you could talk about -- we're still seeing the majority, or really all the growth, in operating profits come from MPC in the year-over-year basis.
And I'm wondering how we should think about the factors impacting and the timing in the handoff of profit growth from MPC to IC and PBP? Is that something that you expect? What are the factors and timing there?
Right. I would say, actually, we've also seen some operating income growth in our PBP segment this quarter, up in constant currency to 7% before LinkedIn. I do want to say some of that impact is absolutely landing, as well as growth.
But, the heart of your question is really about the MPC transition in IC. The way I think about it, we really -- Satya and I and the leadership team decided, gosh, about 18 months ago -- it's been a little longer than that now -- to over-index on investing, because the TM we saw in the intelligent cloud.
We increased hiring, and we invested in direct customer acquisition costs, and we invested in many of the things Satya just talked about in terms of technical capabilities in our sales force. We're starting to see the benefit of that already in our top line numbers.
That 12% or 14% in the server product and services KPI is a very good number. And I continue to expect that we'll see growth in revenue as those resources both get hired, and get up to speed, and add value at accounts.
A lot of that account value, frankly, Walter, today is coming in the form of consumed revenue. Consumed revenue is actually a great leading indicator for what we expect our Azure growth going forward to be. And so some of the confidence that we have in the transition of that investment in operating expense and to even more revenue growth comes from seeing the consumed revenue trend that we're seeing today, as well as the pipeline of projects and customers that we have.
I do think about that being an 18-month investment we've been making. It's starting to pivot to consumed. It will then land as billings, and ultimately in RP&L as GAAP revenue in quarter off the balance sheet.
But I think you're right. We have been working, and continuing to reinvest and save through the year as we look to get everything here more efficient. People often think we focus on cut here or add here.
It's also about -- are we putting every dollar most efficiently to help customers be successful? And I think that's a lot about what you heard Satya talk about the sales transition we're going through. Whether it's how we build products, and so I actually am confident you will start to see that transition land.
And I think Amy described it well in answering the very specific technical question of segment reporting and the margins in it. But architecturally, some of the examples are used are about the digital estate that actually doesn't start with Azure. In many cases, it starts with advanced [set] protection of Windows 10 estate, and then how does that relate to Office 365? How does that relate to Azure Active Directory?
And then the workloads that they may want to put, which are T01 workloads in Azure. It's very similar to what happened even in the client/server era, but of course, the starting points and how this progresses is very different. So we always think at least of the technical architecture that makes us unique in differentiated spanning all of it. So I don't think of it as margin shifts across the segments, and that's why we think of all of this as one digital estate, at least from a customer end perspective.
Thank you.
Thanks, Walter. We'll go to the next question, please.
Thank you. Mark Murphy, JPMorgan.
Yes. Thank you. Satya. I'm wondering what you think would be required to extend the hyper growth trajectory for Azure into the future. For example, are there incremental waves of activity on the horizon that you would tie to Tier 1 workloads, or large data center migrations, or serverless usage which would enable that?
And separate from that, Amy, I'm curious just philosophically, how do you plan to handle price cuts for compute and storage when they occur? Do you think you're better off matching them, exceeding them? Or does it make sense, perhaps, warranting a Premium in many cases due to the differentiated IP that you have up the stack?
Let me start. Overall, I think some of the trends that you've referenced, whether it is Tier 1 workloads, or serverless, or even complete data center migrations, all of that is happening.
And even the customer examples I gave, they were littered with example after example. For example, in [finsa], some very Tier 1 trading applications now using some of our capabilities in service fabric, which is really a past service, which allows you to manage microservices with low latency and high scale. That's a place where we're seeing, in fact, activity, whether it is game development or trading applications.
We're seeing even interesting use cases of Azure Functions, which is completely serverless. In fact, you can even think of it as a price cut for anybody who cares about using consum -- being very, very smart about cloud consumption going serverless is something that we, in fact, advocate. Across the board, I feel we have the right mix of IaaS, PaaS, SaaS, and full user SaaS services, like Azure Active Directory, which gives us the right mix to be able to even have the right margins long-term.
We're not concentrated in any one layer of the stack, which is something we do by design. Because our vision has always been that we want to, of course, offer all of these layers, and customers will choose, depending on their needs and their scenarios. And we're now seeing even a single customer estate spanning all of these.
And, Mark, I'm not sure I want to get into our pricing theory on the call on a go-forward basis in terms of whether or not we match competitors. But what I would say, is really fundamentally related to Satya's point around differentiation of the entire stack and what customers are doing in their digital estate. And the ability to earn margin through that is actually more impactful than whether or not you match pricing at the core.
Thank you, Mark. We'll take the next question, please.
Thank you. Kash Rangan, BofA Merrill Lynch.
Hi. Congrats on finishing up a great quarter, as well. One for you, Amy, one for you, Satya.
One, Amy, when I look at your comments on gross margin, clearly you're not in a position to break out Azure-only gross margin. But I'm wondering if you could take -- come past your commercial cloud targets were about $20 billion.
So if I take what I believe could be a rough split between Azure versus the SaaS segment and look at the best (abrate) companies, I could get to about 70%, 75% gross margin when you hit your targets. Curious what you think about that. Is that too aggressive, or within the ballpark?
And for you, Satya, as cloud computing moves to the enterprise, there's some belief among investors that AWS is going to be a big, strong competitor in the enterprise, so just typically not the stronghold for them. How do we think of Microsoft's enduring strength in the enterprise? And how confident can we be that you should be able to capture your fair share of enterprise workloads as they move to the cloud? Thank you.
Let me start with the second part, and then you can add. Kash, the way I think about it is, even in the client server era, we had tough competition. We had Oracle, we had VMware, and we had many other players we competed with and I grew up competing with.
And we now have AWS, who I think is going to be a credible competitor. So I feel that, as I said, we have a cloud strategy that is not just about infrastructure. It is about really SaaS and infrastructure.
We want to uniquely think about what are the things that we can do to differentiate and add value to our customers' digital estate in the cloud in that context. And that's where, if you will, our fair share will come from -- by competing hard where we have to, but also mostly thinking about differentiation.
And in terms of, is there a long-term gross margin cloud number that is industry-leading, I think right now there's a benchmark in the SaaS community that's probably around the number you talked about in terms of more SaaS applications. And then as you go down through the layers from PaaS to IaaS, that margin declines, obviously, much as it did when that was run as a hardware solution.
The margins were not as high, either. I do think it will be a blend of those, but certainly at the SaaS end, I understand where you get that benchmark from.
Great.
Thank you Kash. We will take the next question, please.
Thank you. Phillip Winslow, Wells Fargo Securities.
Thanks for taking my question. I just wanted to focus back in on Office 365 on the commercial front. You have another strong quarter of revenue growth, obviously at 49% constant currency, but it continues to meaningfully outpace the seat growth, which is still strong, but 37%.
That commentary that you all are giving about premium mix in the past -- two questions here. First, to Satya, when you think about where we are in the progression -- call it up to E5, so to speak, or E3. How do you think this plays out? And how do you think about the mix of unit growth versus that premium mix and translating it to revenue?
And then to Amy, I'd argue that maybe we've done the low margin, or low gross margin parts of the Office 365 transition. And now as this mix goes up, you're actually not just increasing revenue, but the margin is better, too. Is that fair? And then, how do you tie that back to your commercial cloud gross margin expectations long term?
Yes, I can start. On the product side, we think of actually three things which we're trying to do on a continuous basis in Office 365. First, even for the customers already in Office 365 at any given licensing level, we focus quite a bit on their increased usage and intensity.
So, for example, one of the comments I made in my remarks was, for example SharePoint with PowerApps and Flow. That's, to us, the best way for us to keep having that recurring value. And so we focus quite a bit on adding additional value, even to the existing licensing levels and increasing intensity of usage.
Then, things like, what we're doing to even go to non-knowledge workers, audiences in retail or manufacturing, with some of the things that we're doing with staff scheduling, for example. That's a way to expand seats, even beyond what is the traditional knowledge worker. Of course, we have a significant more opportunity in small- and medium-sized businesses, although we have good, healthy growth there.
I think seat growth will come, more from material increases internationally, as well as with some of the regulated segments of the market finally moving to the cloud. Those are all opportunities ahead.
And then the last one, of course, is these new value in things like E5 with voice or analytics and security. So all those three dimensions, there will be variability quarter to quarter in terms of what is happening, but in terms of our investments in the core product value, they are actually happening on all those three.
And to your point on where we are and what's driving that delta and its consistency, frankly over time. Actually, still, the biggest impact is from the transition to E3. The transitions take time.
You're just starting to see some of the impact from E5. We're excited about all the customers in trial and already starting to use the value, whether it's security, increasingly analytics, and ultimately voice. But really, from an ARPU perspective, the biggest driver continues to be the transition to E3.
Then that leads to your question on, do you continue to believe there is some margin expansion possible as you add newer and higher value workloads? And of course, the answer to that is we do believe that. But it certainly comes over a period of time and runs through our annuity base over that pace.
Great.
Thank you, Phil. We will take the next question, please.
Ross MacMillan, RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks so much, and congratulations from me, as well. Two questions. One for Amy first.
When we look at CapEx, it actually declines year over year ex capital leases, but even with capital leases, the growth rate decelerated. And for the full year, it's obviously a pretty wide range, roughly 0% to 40% growth. I'm just curious, Amy, with LinkedIn, have you made any changes to your CapEx assumptions for core Microsoft?
I guess I'm pointing to the fact that it did seem to decelerate quite a lot this quarter. I wondered if there is any additional color you could frame around growth rate for all-up Cap-Ex plus capital leases. Thanks.
Sure. Let me first comment on that I've said it will be lower than it was previously. I certainly would help you in that number and say a little lower. Just so that you're getting into something closer -- I realize 0% to 40% is not as helpful.
I would also say that it does tend to be lumpy, and it's why I don't give very specific guidance every single quarter. And it was not at all impacted by LinkedIn. Our real goal for LinkedIn is over time, of course, I'm sure they'll want to take advantage as we build new services together of some of our infrastructure assets.
But in the short term, the most important thing, is they continue to add value and usage and great experience for their members. I have really no intention of messing with that in terms of capital expenditures in the short -- next six months, for sure. I think what you're seeing in terms of year-over-year and what does it mean for next year, this next quarter, it will be a sequential increase. But again, it is a bit lumpy.
Okay.
Thank you, Ross. We will have time for one more question, please, operator.
Thank you. Raimo Lenschow, Barclays Capital.
Thanks for squeezing me in, and congratulations, as well. I wanted to ask on Windows 10 -- Satya, you talked about at the beginning of that [cast] is trying to adopt it. And you mentioned pretty large ones already.
Can you talk a little bit about that cycle and how you seeing that's unfolding? And what the customer feedback is in terms of their intention to adopt it now versus waiting for little bit? Thank you.
Yes, I think the overall adoption cycle of Windows 10 in the enterprise is perhaps the best that we've seen in the enterprise for any new release of Windows. And primarily driven by security and manageability of the new Windows and that's what has been the driver.
But in addition to that, I must say there are two other things that are increasingly becoming fairly relevant in the adoption cycle, which is moving to both Office 365 and Windows 10 and getting essentially to this new frontier for productivity, which is an always up-to-date operating system, which is secure, and an always up-to-date office experience that is a fast service. We are increasingly seeing that resonate, not just in small business and high tech industry, as it has been in the past, but now even in the regulated parts of the enterprise. So we are very excited about that.
The other piece also that's driving is hardware innovation by the entire ecosystem. In fact, the work that we did with the Surface line has really stimulated the entire ecosystem to do some of the best innovative work. And you saw that, even as [TES]. And the enterprise adoption of these new devices is also driving the overall excitement around Windows 10 and Windows 10 innovation.
Correct. Thank you.
Thank you, Raimo. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming months at various investor conferences. For those unable to attend in person, the events will be webcast, and you can follow our comments on the Microsoft Investor Relations website. Please contact us if you need any additional details, and thank you for joining us today.
Thank you all.
Thank you, everyone.
Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.