On the competitive front, with your nearest competitor rolling out a second generation, 7-nanometer server product next year, I guess first question is, is the Intel team still on track to roll out its second-generation Xeon family, the Cascade Lake at the end of this year? And if you could just help us understand, what are some of the performance and portfolio differentiators that are going to help the team maintain relatively strong share in the server segment, 2019 and beyond?
Yes. Harlan, this is Murthy. Let me take that one. Yes, you're correct. We still intend to be making first shipments of Cascade Lake by Q4. And we're really excited with the stockpile of new features we have lined up for that platform, primarily the support of our Optane persistent memory that we'll launch in conjunction with Cascade Lake as we enter early 2019, we believe that will be a significant uplift in performance. We will also have a dedicated instruction set extensions to support artificial intelligence workloads. And we'll have continued generation over generation CPU improvements. So all in all, we think that Cascade Lake represents a power-packed addition to the data center road map. And of course, we have further excitement towards the end of next year as we launch our Cooper Lake platform as well. So we're really excited about the lineup we have in our DCG road map for next year and indeed, as you said, for the end of this quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Toshiya Hari from Goldman Sachs.
Bob, you've done a great job in managing OpEx since coming on board. You talked about further leverage into 2019. Can you remind us which areas of the business you're deemphasizing from a spending perspective? And how should we think about the balance between R&D and SG&A in 2019 and beyond?
Yes. First, I think the progress we made has been a team sport. And as I indicated in the prepared remarks, we're down 700 basis points from 2015. And during that time frame, it's not been at the expense of R&D, it's -- on the contrary, R&D has been -- has grown $1.4 billion during that time frame. So really, the underlying dynamics is we've made trade-offs to invest in higher growth segments of the business. That growth is, in fact, accelerating. And from that accelerating growth, we've been extremely disciplined on getting leverage on our SG&A, and we've exited some, what I'd characterize, noncore businesses. During the course of this year, we exited Wind River. We reduced our investments in wearables, products. And we exited these Saffron business as well. So as we go forward, we're going to continue to increase R&D. But -- and we're going to increase it in the areas that we think can generate differentiated growth for us. And from that growth, we expect to continue to get leverage as we go into -- as we enter 2019.
Our next question comes from the line of John Pitzer from Crédit Suisse.
Well, I wonder if you can just comment a little bit on when do you think the supply constraints will be over relative to your sort of capacity addition plans. And if I caught it right, it sounds like in the calendar fourth quarter, you're choosing to kind of shortchange the IoT Group. Does that mean that you're already kind of caught up in the PC market? Or how should we be thinking about that dynamic?
First, John, as we mentioned earlier, the -- we were caught off guard a little bit this year by explosive growth well ahead of what our expectations were back in the beginning of the year. And that growth came from all different segments in the business. It put us in the unfortunate situation of constraining some of the demand signals that we were seeing from the market and our customer base. Our teams have done -- in conjunction with our customers, our teams have done an outstanding job in the third quarter and we project into the fourth quarter. And that has enabled us to increase our revenue outlook for the year by $1.7 billion. But I think as we go into the fourth quarter, given the demand signals we continue to see across the business, we, in fact, will be constraining growth. Our focus has been prioritizing in conjunction with our customers, Xeon and Core processors. And therefore, by definition, the lower end of PC and the IoT business is being constrained. So we are in a constrained scenario into the fourth quarter, both at low end PC and in IoT. As we go into next year and kind of the timing, we've put a lot of capital to work this year. It's a record year for CapEx for us at $15.5 billion. It's a $1.5 billion higher than what we expected entering the year. And we have kind of taken some of our 10-nanometer equipment tools and began to blow that back to meet the increased demand for 14. So we're working extremely hard to get back on track in 2019. But at this stage of the game, given the demand signals we've seen in the fourth quarter, we're going to be constrained a little bit. And we're trying to prioritize as best as we can with our customers.
Our next question comes from the line of Ambrish Srivastava from Bank of Montreal.
But one area you did not touch on was CapEx. And I'm asking if you could provide us some directional input on that on what we should expect for CapEx, specifically in light of the Micron call option and implications that has for your spend on the memory side.
Yes. I think on CapEx at the macro level as we think into '19, we expect logic CapEx to likely be a little higher, and memory CapEx, despite building self-sufficiency on Optane, to be a little bit lower. So at the macro level, those are the dynamics. The -- in terms of how it plays out on overall levels, it's still a work in process. And I'd characterize it, Ambrish, this way. First, it's going to be a function of growth. As we get clear around what growth looks like in 2019 for 14-nanometer, that will impact what the overall CapEx level is. Secondly, if we -- we've made some good progress on 10-nanometer yields over the course of the last 6 months. And as we progress through in the -- through the fourth quarter into 2019, if we're further ahead on 10-nanometer yields, that will influence the amount of CapEx next year. Third, our progress on 7-nanometer, how well we progress in 7-nanometer is also -- will influence how we think about CapEx. And last but not least, as it relates to memory, it's more the customer quals and adoption of our leading edge, 3D NAND 96-layer product as we continue to make progress on developing that. We may deploy that capital, and that pays for itself very quickly. So as we sit here today, CapEx -- I expect logic to be up, memory to be down. And as we look at those 4 things, all of which I'd characterize as being good things if we made progress on all 4 of those, that will influence the rate of CapEx spend next year. So we'll try to provide you a little more analytical color versus that qualitative cover in January.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Moore from Morgan Stanley.
Wanted to get -- just give us a little more color on the PC numbers in the quarter. How much were you constrained by the shortages that you saw? And I guess, it looks like you grew a little bit more than seasonal on a sequential basis. And how much of the ASP lift that you saw do you think was a function of those shortages? And then just any color on could those shortages spread higher into this product stack over the course of Q4?
Yes, Joe. I think as you saw from the IDC and Gartner folks, growth for PC TAM in the quarter, probably around 1%. Our guess is it was probably a little bit stronger than that, 1% to 2% growth. And within that, we delivered 6% unit growth. So real strong unit growth and again, good ASP momentum. I would say in Q3, largely a function of customer collaboration in our fabs. I don't think we're too terribly constrained on the PC side to be honest with you. I think as we go into Q4 is where I think the constraints are impacting us a little bit more. So I don't think ASPs or supply constraints really -- we did not benefit from higher ASPs, nor were we constrained in terms of unit growth in the quarter. It's more a fourth quarter thing where demand signals remained relatively strong. And as you saw from our guide, while it's good year-on-year growth, it's relatively flat on -- overall on Q3 to Q4. And PCs -- low end of PCs and IoT will be impacted as we see the demand signals at this stage of the game.
Our next question comes from the line of Weston Twigg from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
I just wanted to ask a little bit. I get the demand's really good here in the back half of 2019, but with the trade war discussions, softening demand in China, some cycle risk indicators, are you seeing anything or talking to customers that would indicate that there would be any first half 2019 risk to demand?
Yes. It's a great question. I think at the aggregate level, there's what I'd maybe characterize as some decent tailwinds as we go -- as we exit the year and then go into '19 but also some headwinds. The tailwinds, we've -- as you know, we've been talking about an expanded TAM where we play a bigger and bigger role in the increased needs for data. And that larger TAM and the momentum we're building across all of our products is a pretty good tailwind as we look at just demand for data, whether it's with consumers or with businesses going into the new year. That's a tailwind. Secondly, Murthy mentioned a few of the products that we have coming in down the pipe in fourth quarter and going in the next year. And those products, we believe, will deliver more and more performance for our clients, which I'd characterize as a tailwind. And then third in somewhat of a perverse way, as you know, when PC was 70% of the business and when enterprise was 50-plus percent of the data center business and those were declining, it was the headwind for the company's growth. But those more recently have been stable. So whether it's our expanded TAM, our new products or the mix of our business, we have some tailwinds as we think about 2019. At the same time, to your point, there's some headwinds. And the headwinds, first, this has been a fantastic year for us and I think for the industry, and that just makes comps a little bit tougher as we go into next year. Second, we have growing competition. And growing competition can be a headwind for us. And our expectations are we'll deal with that pretty effectively. And third, just global trade. In particular, as you know, China's a big market for us. We got some important customers there, and it's important -- it's an important part of our global supply chain. So as that -- as this most recent round of tariffs kind of play out and we're doing a lot of work with our customers to ensure that the global supply chain can be adjusted and adapted to deal with any tariffs that come down the way, but it's -- I think it's going to be a wait-and-see as we go into 2019. At this stage of the game, we don't see any impact on 2018's results. And in 2019, we have what I'd consider a world-class supply chain team that can manage and weather the dynamics of changes in movements of goods better than anybody else in the industry. So I think that would be a competitive advantage for us as we go into next year.
Our next question comes from the line of Tim Arcuri from UBS.
I wanted to ask on the DCG. You're not specifically guiding it next year, but it sounds like you're still pretty bullish. And there's a lot of investors, I think, worried about a hyperscale CapEx slow down next year. So I guess, is it that you're bullish on CapEx next year? Or is it kind of more a commentary on product cycle, maybe Xeon Scalable beginning to catalyze kind of a server upgrade cycle?
Well, I think, first, we've -- in terms of growth for next year in the aggregate, we haven't really provided any quantitative color, more qualitative cover in terms of the dynamics that we see. That being said, our DCG growth this year is projected to be north of 20%, real strong for the first 3 quarters of the year. So fourth quarter, we expect really solid demand. But it's on a tough -- much tougher comp because fourth quarter last year was a great quarter for the DCG business. As we go into next year, we got -- Murthy highlighted, we've got a good product road map of expanded features for Cascade Lake as we exit this year, Cooper Lake, middle of next year. And we have a much more diverse business now with -- obviously, cloud has been a big accelerant for us. I don't expect that it will grow at 50% forever. 50% was our cloud growth in the quarter. But at the same time, our comms and networking business growth has been accelerating quite a bit, and the stability we've seen in enterprise and government has really helped. So I think next year, we have a much more diverse business. We got a good product lineup and we'll provide a little more color as we get into January. But outstanding year, this year, for data center, both top line and bottom line.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Seymore from Deutsche Bank.
Bob, I want to ask on the gross margins side. First, thank you for the color you gave on 2019. But if I back it up a step, what's the headwinds in the fourth quarter sequentially? And then any big picture moving parts, 10-nanometer yields, mix, what have you that gives you the confidence that you could still stay in the upper half of that 55% to 65% range for 2019?
Yes, yes, great question. First, a little color on Q3, and then I'll walk from Q3 to Q4 dynamics. Yes, it's as the -- we highlighted in the materials, 60% -- almost 66% gross margin in the quarter is high as it's been for a very long time. And it was a function of a few things: One, continued volume leverage with full factories; two, ASPs, both on a client side and on the data center side. And those were partially offset by platform cost going up and a change in mix, a growth of our modem and memory business. So those are the 4 dynamics that played out during the course of the quarter. I would say 66% was artificially high, and I'd say that for a couple of reasons. One, we had in our -- in the NSG business, we earned a government incentive that was from scaling our fabs outside the U.S. So that incentive was worth about $110 million. So a bit of a one-timer that we don't expect to repeat itself. Secondly, sell-through of product, either -- on the CPU side, we're working with our customers and shaping demand to where we had inventory. We had good sell-through for some inventory that was previously partially reserved. And then second, on our modem growth, our explosive modem growth in the quarter. We PRQ'd that product in the third quarter. So we got the benefit of previously fully reserved inventory. So what all that means when you adjust for kind of one-timers, the 66% is closer to 64% in terms of normalized basis going into the fourth quarter. Our guide in the fourth quarter, to your question, is 62%. So there's really 3 dynamics that we see playing out in the fourth quarter. One, we expect ASPs to be better. And that's going to be a little bit of a function of the prioritization of Xeon and Core processors, which are higher ASP mix. So we expect that to benefit us. But at the same time, there's 3 other things that as we go into the fourth quarter that I'd characterized as really good things but will have an impact on our gross margin. One is ramping 10-nanometer. We're making good progress on 10-nanometer. Yields are improving, and that's giving us the confidence to, in effect, turn on more equipment and incur the depreciation cost associated with that. So that will impact our Q3 to Q4 gross margins. And it's a function of the progress we're making on 10-nanometer. Second, memory continues to grow, a good 21% growth in the third quarter. We expect it to continue to grow in the fourth quarter. And that has -- our NAND business has been profitable during the course of the year but not at the gross margins of our logic business. And then third, we're experiencing explosive growth on modem with some really good share gains. And the modem product is also -- the combination of memory and modem are accretive to our year-on-year earnings growth but dilutive to our gross margins. So that's the kind of Q3 adjusted gross margin going into Q4 will likely cost us roughly a couple points. As we then step back and think about 2019, those -- we see those same dynamics playing out, primarily 14-nanometer volume. So continued good yield, unit cost performance on 14-nanometer. We don't expect ASPs to be dramatically better in an increasingly competitive environment, but we don't expect them to be much worse. 10-nanometer costs will ramp. And we do expect to continue to grow memory and modem. It'll be accretive to earnings but a little dilutive to gross margin. So again, a fairly long-winded walk from what drove Q3. The goodness operationally of what will happen to Q4 gross margins has been our comfort that 2019 will be a modest degradation. But when coupled with the leverage on our operating expense, our operating margins will be kind of roughly flat in the 34% range.
And operator, I think we've got time for 2 more questions.
Certainly. Our next question comes from the line of Vivek Arya from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Bob, just one more on 10-nanometer. You mentioned it's on track. Is there a way to kind of quantify progress on 10-nanometer over the last 3 months? And if you were to kind of go back to a similar time when you were getting ready to make the jump to 14-nanometer, are the 10-nanometer yields and cost behaving in a similar way? Just any color around progress would be helpful.
Vivek, let me take that. This is Murphy. First of all, as Bob said in his opening remarks, the progress we've made in the quarter is very much in line with our expectations. While we can't give any specific numbers, I do believe that the yields as we speak now are tracking roughly in line with what we experienced in 14-nanometer. So we're still very much reinforcing and reaffirming our previous guidance that we believe that we'll have 10-nanometer shipping by holiday of 2019. And if anything, I feel more confident about that at this call than I did in the call a quarter ago. So we're making good progress, and I think we're making the quarter-on-quarter progress that's consistent with prior generations having reset the progress curve.
Our final question comes from the line of Romit Shah from Nomura Instinet.
Bob, you've -- you said that progress on 7-nanometer will also be a factor driving CapEx next year. And I was hoping you could maybe talk about that a little bit more. When you talk about progress, is that a statement about yields meaning if 7-nanometer yields are improving, you could potentially deploy more CapEx to ramp that process note a little earlier?
Well, it's -- we haven't really given a time line for 7, so to say it's ramping earlier would be a little bit of a stretch. But this is -- we've been investing in EUV for a while, and we've obviously been investing in 7-nanometer. And when we step back and think about CapEx for next year, again, it's a function of growth on 14. It's a function of the rate in which we scale 10, and it's a function of investments we'd make to begin to prove out 7 in a more meaningful way. So those are just the dynamics that we're looking at and thinking about as we get closer to giving you a more definitive guide for CapEx in '19.
All right. Thank you all for joining us today. Operator, please go ahead and wrap up the call.
Certainly. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your participation in today's conference. This does conclude the program. You may now disconnect. Good day.