So relative to your guidance, over half the beat this quarter came in the Intelligent Cloud segment, so I wouldn't mind digging in there a little bit. And it wasn't just the amazing Azure performance. Your on-prem server product business accelerated despite the cautious commentary about a tough comp on the last call. Even Enterprise Services was plus 3 instead of flat, and your guide actually suggests that, that goodness in Intelligent Cloud should continue next quarter despite actually a way tougher comp. So I'm just curious, Amy or Satya, if there are any threads that you can weave through this Intelligent Cloud outperformance, if you saw any broader increase in enterprise spend in the December quarter, any change in behavior. Or is all of this goodness a little bit more Microsoft-specific? Amy, you called out IT spending signals, so I'm guessing maybe a little bit was macro.
Thanks, Karl. Let me start and Amy can add. For me, it all comes down to really having an architectural advantage on what is a new secular trend. So when we think about the intelligent cloud and the intelligent edge and then bring that to the Azure business, you can see it at each layer. When it comes to infrastructure, we're the only cloud provider that provides true hybrid cloud computing with Azure and Azure Stack. When it comes to the data tier, we have real uniqueness. Take something like Cosmos DB. It's the only planet-scale database that's multimodal, supports these new programming models of serverless and event-driven programming. Take SQL. What we are seeing in terms of SQL growth, in terms of Azure DB as well as SQL Server and SQL Server on Linux, that's, again, addressing the customer needs. There are new workloads that are being born that require both the cloud and the edge, IoT being a great example of that. And especially when you take that in combination with AI, again, you train on the cloud and you score on the edge. That's a real competitive advantage. We have everything from sort of the life cycle management of how these models get created and deployed and so on. So I think that's what you're seeing. There will be variability quarter-to-quarter. There will be mix differences. But overall, when I look at what is it that we need to get done is innovate on what is a fundamental architectural advantage to where the world is going.
And I would say, Karl, a couple of things. We've been investing here both in engineering to land the differentiation that Satya just talked about in sales resources and in continuing to invest in technical sales resources that can help our customers be successful in these deployments. I actually think you're continuing to see the impact of those investments growing in time and growing in expertise. And so I feel encouraged both by the technical differentiation but also the return on the investments we've made here that lead us to have a good amount of confidence that you do see in the guide in Q3. And yes, you're right. We do have a tougher comparable particularly on prem in Q3, which is correct.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley.
Very -- again, a really solid quarter. And Chris, it's been great working with you. Sorry to see you go from this role. As for my questions, one question for Satya, and starting a little bit narrow and maybe running off from there. Gaming in the quarter, seems to have had a good quarter for gaming with the Xbox launch. But more broadly, there's some murmurings out there about Xbox falling behind PlayStation if you look at the sort of the bases of those 2 consoles. There's murmurings about not having enough kind of exclusive games on the console. I know you sort of mixed up the leadership a little bit there. How do you feel about your positioning in gaming from a narrow focus? And then more broadly, how are you guys feeling about your position in the home, if you will? When I go home, I'm talking to Alexa, not talking to Cortana. Is that something that you're comfortable with where we are today? Is that something we should see improving on a going-forward basis?
Thanks, Keith. So let me take both of those questions. So on gaming, we feel good about Xbox One X, the premium console launch. We also feel good about the volume we got for Xbox One S because we always wanted that halo effect of the premium console driving even the lower-end console because that creates the sockets for gaming for us. But our real strategy going forward is not only to do great work on the console, but to complement that with the work we're doing on the PC. PC gaming is a growth market. And so therefore, you see us whether it's our subscription offer, whether it's our streaming efforts that are increasingly bringing the console plus PC together and then not stopping there but going to other devices. So for example, mobile. Minecraft on mobile, we just launched, in fact, in the last quarter in China. We are seeing tremendous growth of Minecraft expansion on mobile platform in China. So overall, you will see us do good work on console. We'll compete there. But more importantly, we have a much more broader gaming view in terms of what value we can add with our subscription services, streaming services across all devices. And one other point, I think, I made in my remarks earlier is gaming also is a growth area for Azure. In other words, we have now increasing PaaS services that we are going to reinforce on Azure and attract more game developers. Some of the know-how that we have from Xbox is not just about the Xbox, but it's going to help developers across the board. So that, I think, will also transcend or lead into even media companies. So we are very excited about some of what we can get out of our investments in gaming. So that's our focus on gaming. In terms of Cortana and home, I think it's probably important, although the question I'll ask is -- you asked it narrowly, but my investments are much broader. In other words, I first start by saying let's make sure our best AI capability, whether it's speech, whether it's ultimately even image recognition and dialogue management because right now most assistants are fairly dumb in terms of just doing one-turn dialogue, but where we're going to go is multi-turn dialogue and that requires real natural language understanding. So all of those investments, for example, are available on Azure as Cognitive Services. I even referenced in my remarks how in health care, people are using those to build bots and skills and agents. That's where we will make sure we do our best building blocks and AI work. Of course, it will manifest for us with Cortana as an agent for Microsoft that has some special skills, especially around that crossover between work and life. Most agents and their knowledge of smarts come from the data access they have. In our case, it's going to be about things that are there in Office 365: the people, places, things and how we reason about it and help users whether they're at home or whether they're at work. Lastly, even when it comes to devices, we want to take an approach that brings all assistants. That's why we are working with Alexa. We would welcome it on our devices because we believe in a world where our own assistant should be available everywhere and so should other assistants be available on our devices versus thinking that the end game here is about speaking -- doing one-turn dialogues on one speaker in one home. That's just not our vision.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Moerdler with AB.
Chris, congratulations on the new position. I'm sure you'll be greatly successful. Satya, I'd like to ask you a question. Can you give us a sense of what is the adoption of Azure in the U.S. versus international, not just in the revenue point of view, but in terms of the mix of premium workloads, types of workloads, et cetera? How should we think of where we are in that process?
I would say the U.S. has been a lead market in general when it comes to the latest technology and architectural paradigm adoption, but let's take something like AI or the higher-level services around data. We clearly see, first, things happening in U.S. and quickly followed by geographies like Germany and the U.K. There are certain workloads, like the IoT workload, where we do see very advanced action in countries like Germany, especially with industrial customers in terms of smart factories, Japan. But I think broadly, I don't see any difference than, say, what we used to see or what we still see on our server or any other technology adoption curves. And they have differences in industry patterns because different industries are strong in different parts of the globe. So and then they represent different use cases in terms of the components of Azure that get used.
Our next question comes from the line of Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.
Two questions. One, Amy, I guess you've been talking about, and so is IR, about the commercial bookings where the expiry base was down over year-over -- on a year-over-year basis. I'm just wondering, if you look ahead to 2019, is there anything you could share with us about the size of the expiry base in that period just so we could think about it? I know you don't give guidance that far out, but just as we start to think about -- thinking about further outgrowth. And then I guess the other question would be, you mentioned better IT spending. But just also given the significant savings companies in the U.S. are going to be seeing due to lower tax bills, is there any early feedback from partners or customers about the rate that this might be reinvested back into IT spending and digitization?
Thanks, Heather. In general, FY '19 we'll have a higher base than FY '18 just as you start to think through the impacts on bookings for the next year. And as we talked about, Q3 has that same attribute. It's higher than it was a year ago Q2. The reason we called that out obviously because it was such an outlier. And if you look back 3 years sort of how this EA expiry base works, our performance this quarter was really strong compared to 3 years ago. So I feel great about our sales execution, especially in terms of growing the recapture rate at accounts. To your question on the demand signals we're seeing in the U.S. in particular, I think it is quite early. But as we've said, the U.S. has been a good market for us and a strong market for us for a good period of time, and it was again in Q2 as we noted. And I think we are optimistic as we look to H2 when we see the signals we're seeing in the market, whether it's PCs, server or the cloud demand.
Our next question comes from the line of Phil Winslow with Wells Fargo.
Congrats not only just on the income statement, but also obviously the balance sheet where obviously the commercial, it was only down 5% versus your guide of 7%, so congrats there. The -- my focus is actually on the commercial side, but specifically on Office. Office 365 revenue continues to outpace fee growth there. We've talked about that in the past with pricing. But if I just look at also overall Office on the commercial side, up 10%, same as Q1, when you all think about just going forward just the mix of those 2, obviously, the on-prem business is still declining in the high teens and then Office 365 growing rapidly, how do you think about just the blended growth of Office commercial and the puts and takes there?
This is one where I tend to -- when I think about that 10% number, it really is the same way I think about Office 365. Our goal and I think the real opportunity that remains with Office 365 and Microsoft 365 going forward is our ability to continue to grow the installed base and to also continue to grow ARPU. The combination of those 2 things and the opportunity we see is the reason in the sales reorg that we did in July, we continue to put resources and sales resources behind collaboration and communication and so many of the important workloads that allow us to give great value to customers. And you even started to see it this quarter, as you're pointing out, Phil. We saw a little bit more impact of E5 this quarter in ARPU than we had been seeing. It's been in the market a while. We're seeing that momentum, the value all up of E5 not just from an Office perspective, but from a Microsoft 365 perspective with security and management as well as some of the newer products that are getting some strong adoption like Teams. I think we feel really good about where we are and the value and our opportunity both from small business up to the large enterprise, from first-line workers to do all of these things and continue to execute well. So the guide certainly implies that continued optimism.
Our next question comes from the line of Raimo Lenschow with Barclays.
All the best for you, Chris. I just wanted to double click on the productivity gaze you see in the cloud, especially on Azure. Can you talk a little bit about the drivers there? I know one is that your build-out pattern was different than some of your competitors, so you're kind of filling capacity. But also talk a little bit about what you see in terms of how you're delivering the services in Azure and how that's evolving.
I mean, overall, we did take an approach that we want to make sure we meet the real-world needs across the globe, and we'll continue to do so. When we look at our CapEx spend, we want to make sure that the data center regions meet the needs of our customers globally across both consumer workloads and enterprise workloads where real data sovereignty requirements and speed-of-light issues are all really relevant. Having said that, the way it fills up is by the value-add that we can do. So that's why the mix of these higher-level services, especially around data and AI, is definitely driving a lot more consumption of our higher-level services. And even something like IoT, they're not just at the consumption meters, but they also got SaaS-like qualities to them. So I feel very, very good about ultimately having innovation that drives both the consumption of more higher-level services and then also making sure that we are available in all parts of the world where the demand is going to spread to because we're in the very, very early innings of, essentially, this new cloud growth. And there's only going to be increasing demand as there's more digitization of every city, every factory, every hospital and so on. So I think we have a long way to go to still fill up.
And I would say the way to think about that, and you see it in the gross margin percentages and the improvements we've continued to see, is the Azure premium revenue growth exceeding the overall revenue growth. That actually is a benefit to the gross margin rate. Then again, all the work we have done through the supply chain. So while we have a signal come in, you see a very quick turn from demand signal to us having servers in place and ready to be utilized very quickly. That work continues and the team has done a really nice job. And then as well, software improvements. They continue to go on to increase our ability to run more on less. Those, taken together, continue to show gross margin improvement.
Our next question comes from the line of Gregg Moskowitz with Cowen and Company.
Amy, I'd like to follow up on Heather's question because it's really difficult to grow commercial bookings by mid-single-digits constant currency in the face of 20% or so declining EA expirations. And so I'm wondering, looking beyond this quarter, if you could expand on how commercial bookings growth ex renewals is trending. And in other words, are you getting more separation, if you will, between reported growth and growth excluding renewal activity?
Let me take a shot. The way I think about bookings growth every quarter is you tend to look at a couple of things. And I would say I start with renewals, not just that we renew the contract, but how many new products, new services did we add to that contract. Did we expand our footprint, our percentage of the IT budget at a customer? Did they rely on us for more products and more services? This quarter is a good example of that happening. And if you think about the connection to why that happens, it's not just the terrific engineering work that we've done in product value. It's also the investments that we've made to put resources in some of these larger accounts to continue to add new workloads that are only possible in the cloud, and we've added resources that we're seeing the revenue get recaptured in that way. So that, I think, feels very good from a resource allocation and return perspective. And so then the next component obviously is being able to grow just brand-new accounts. Are we growing customer bases? Are we penetrating segments? And you also saw that in the quarter. So at a high level, you can either sort of add more expand your footprint or you get to add a new customer, and both of those are motions that we focus on. And I feel good about our execution. I think there's -- and you'll see that dynamic. So if the expiry base is a little bigger, you'd expect obviously a number bigger than that on the bookings side and when the expiry raises, there's growth. It's really about the delta between the 2, as you note, and our execution this quarter was quite good. But it's come from sustainable investment and our sales technical resources and in the engineering to deliver a differentiated value at the customer.
Our next question comes from the line of Kash Rangan with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Satya, my 9-year-old kid insists that Minecraft is the best thing for his brain development. So whatever it is, congratulations. My serious question is with the cash repatriation, obviously, Microsoft has the ability to bring back a lot of money. I'm wondering what the priorities of the company are with respect to doing a large strategic deal or not so perhaps and perhaps even share repurchases and dividends. Clearly, this is once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, and there's a lot that can be done. Curious how you think about this.
I'll actually let Amy take it.
Yes, why don't I take this? Number one, I would say we have -- when we have seen an opportunity to invest, we have not really waited for tax reform to do that. Our opportunity, the TAM, really the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity is really the technical transition and digital transformation that's occurring now. And so we've invested to make that happen. We've made acquisitions when they made sense. We have used the capital markets and the debt market to fund those to make sure that we made the right investments to grow our business. And so for us, we also didn't wait when we thought about capital return. Even this quarter, we returned almost all of our free cash flow generation in dividends and share repurchase. And we've been on that path for a number of years. Now that being said, I am pleased, obviously, to be able to access the cash more easily and not have to go through the debt market to be able to make these choices, whether it's investment in ourselves and the returns you've seen in this quarter in revenue growth, whether it's the acquisitions like LinkedIn that are performing better than we expected. And I think today, we would even say it's a more strategic asset than we even maybe thought a year ago in terms of the power of it to add to our graph and our understanding and then be able to return capital. So for me, while I appreciate the spirit behind the question, for us, we have felt a necessity to do that for years as a part of total shareholder return and our commitment to do that. And I think we've done a good job, and I'm proud of what we've done and I'm proud and excited for what we can continue to do.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Nemeroff with Crédit Suisse.
This one's for Amy about the Office 365 commercial. Are there any limitations other than storage-related workloads that would limit Office 365 commercial gross margin from reaching, say, 80% over time? And what are some of the current limitations on that gross margin that you think could be improved upon for that to work higher than 70% over time?
Thanks. You're right. In general, workloads like Exchange and increasingly, SharePoint, which we have seen some really great encouraging numbers on usage of SharePoint in our Office 365 consumer -- commercial base, those do have storage requirements. And so you're absolutely right. They are slightly different than many of the very high-level SaaS workloads that you see. But we still do have room, which I think is really the core of the question. We still have some room to improve that Office 365 commercial gross margin from the new workloads we've added, which have even more of those pure SaaS-like workloads. And aside from Office in that same segment is Dynamics who -- or LinkedIn, which both have those SaaS-like margins and can and we see opportunity to both improve those as well. So I don't think there's necessarily a level, but there's certainly room even within these storage-heavy workloads.
Yes, I mean, just to add, but not specifically to the gross margin question, but the expansive nature of Microsoft 365 is for we think of it all up in that context. Amy already referenced how small businesses that perhaps never did advanced workloads are now able to do so. Emerging markets that never did are able to do so. So first of all, whether it's -- on first-line workers, we never had any solutions for first-line workers. So there is a market expansion in terms of users and the sophistication of the workloads that they can use or the higher-level services. The other thing is Office by itself, you talked about storage. It's an interesting question to say what is being stored in Office: in meetings going forward, at home office or people calling in, things like Mixed Reality being used in meetings. It's very different. It's not about you sitting in front of Word and entering text. That's not the full limit of Office. Office is about any people collaborating in voice or in -- with even computer vision and many other ways that I think collaboration will happen. So we have a very expansive view, much like Azure for infrastructure and data and AI in terms of human activity that gets digitized at work and at home is something that we are going after with Microsoft 365.
Our last question will come from the line of Alex Zukin with Piper Jaffray.
Satya, I wanted to ask you about Azure Stack adoption. You mentioned it was ahead of your expectations on the call. And I guess, if you think about your early traction with service providers and how you're empowering them to build these Azure-capable data centers globally, maybe longer term, how should we think about the impact of this on Azure hyper growth durability beyond fiscal '18 as you scale?
See, our overall vision for how computing evolves is that it's going to be more distributed, not less distributed. Let's just take, for example, what's happening in a factory. In a factory, one thing that is secular is that they're putting lots and lots of more sensors. A lot of these sensors today are, in fact, rendezvousing some of that data straight to the cloud. As you do more of that, what happens is you need to -- and then you start doing sensor fusion, which is your multiple sensors that you want to be able to fuse and take action. The speed of light gets in the way. So they want local compute. And so in order to have that local compute in some of these factories with millions of sensors, you may, in fact, need Azure Stack. So it's not just about old workloads and service providers and essentially hybrid computing as we understand it. When I think about hybrid computing, at least in the fullness of time, it's more the future of distributed computing where there is a cloud, there is an edge and even the edge is not just one single edge, but it's got a typology associated with it going all the way to the sensors, whether it's at home, whether it's in a hospital, whether it's in a factory. So that's where we're going to end up, which is a true distributed computing fabric that the world needs in order to be digitally transformed. How and quarter-to-quarter will there be volatility, shifts, changes, that's all going to be the case. But we see the pattern emerge pretty clearly in terms of where we need to go.
Thank you, Alex. So that wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. Thank you for joining us today. We look forward to seeing many of you at the coming months at various investor conferences and events. You can find the details on the Microsoft IR website. Thank you.
Thank you all. Thanks very much.
Thank you, all. Thanks, Chris.
Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.