Can you please give us the puts and takes for the Q1 guide? There are lots of moving parts, and so I think that would be helpful.
Yes, absolutely, Hans. Thanks for the question. So our Q1 revenue guidance was up 32% year-on-year, and if you take a look at that, it's actually significantly better than our typical seasonality. Primarily, that's due to the new product strength. So we see GPUs, Ryzen and EPYC, all up in Q1, and that's contributing to the strong guidance. We do expect that the semi-custom business will be down in Q1 relative to the first quarter of 2017 just due to the fact that we're in the sixth year of the cycle. So if you actually take the new product strength, the guidance is actually over 32% year-on-year.
Okay. And then the seasonality of semi-custom will continue to be weaker on a year-over-year basis for the rest of the year. Is that the way to model that?
Yes. So what you should be -- expect with semi-custom is, on a full year basis, the revenue will be likely down compared to 2017 just due to where we are in the cycle, and units will be down. There will be a bit of an adjustment to the seasonality as we move over to the new accounting regulations with 606, and so we'll see, let's call it, a bit more revenue in the first half and a bit less revenue in the second half. So for the year, it is very similar, and then we'll see a little bit of shift in the quarterly profile. But again, back to the -- your question -- your initial question on the Q1 revenue guidance, it is really driven by new product strength.
Our next question is coming from David Wong from Wells Fargo.
Following on from your answer to Hans' question, Lisa, can you give us some feel for the revenue, the new product momentum in terms of sales in the fourth quarter '17? And in particular, any numbers on Ryzen, EPYC or Vega? Absolute sales dollars or sequential growth in Q4 would be helpful.
Yes, absolutely, David. So we had a very strong Q4. If you look at the overall business, it was up 34% year-on-year. If you look underneath that, the Computing and Graphics business was very strong. So we saw 17% sequential growth, significantly better than seasonality. That was up on client, particularly Ryzen desktop, had a very strong holiday. We also started initial shipments on Ryzen Mobile. And then on the graphics side, we saw strength in all product lines, so we saw strength in the channel for both gaming as well as blockchain. We saw strength in OEMs as we ramped Apple with our Vega processors. We also saw strength in professional graphics as we launched some GPU compute into the data center. So overall, those were the puts and takes. Semi-custom was down sequentially, and again, that's as expected given the typical seasonality of the semi-custom business.
And Devinder, it might have been nested in what you -- your prepared remarks. But do you expect your net debt will grow in the seasonally weak first half of 2018? And if so, how much might net debt go up?
Net debt, when you say net debt, just explain that, David. What do you mean by that?
Well, debt minus cash. Presumably, well, do your cash balances fall during the first half of the year?
The debt levels came down in 2017 because we did repurchase some of the long-term principal debt to the tune of $134 million. And in the guidance we provided, we said that 2018 would be free cash flow positive. So if anything, I guess, the net debt, as you look at it, would come down as we get to the second half of 2018.
But any help in the first half? What happens to the net debt in the first half?
Typically, we invest in the business. As you saw in the guidance, I expect inventory to be up in Q1. And obviously, with the strength of the business momentum that Lisa just talked about, we're prepared to go ahead and purchase product, a way for us to go ahead and fund the business.
Our next question is coming from Mark Lipacis from Jefferies.
Lisa, I was hoping you could give us a little more color on EPYC. Are we starting to get past pilot programs now and getting deployed into production environments? And can you give us a sense of the take of EPYC in the cloud versus enterprise?
Yes, absolutely, Mark. So well, we are pleased with where we are with EPYC. We think we've made a very nice progress as in the fourth quarter. We announced that the large OEMs are now qualified and starting to ship to end customers. And so we have seen some very nice design wins in sales at some marquee end customers. If you look across education, financial services and the hosting business, those are looking good. On the cloud side, we have publicly talked about Microsoft Azure as well as Baidu adopting EPYC in their cloud of environments. We are working with a number of the other cloud players to adopt EPYC, and we're working on some of the optimizations required there. So overall, we're very pleased with the momentum. I think we always knew that there was a qualification cycle to go through, but we've gotten through some of the major qualifications here in the fourth quarter and especially as we looked in December, we actually closed a number of new deals with the platforms being available for sale.
That's helpful. And then on the C&G side, very impressive growth. Can you give us a sense of to what extent that growth was driven by Ryzen products versus Radeon? And then on the Radeon side, can you give us a sense of what blockchain was to the contribution and how you're viewing the sustainability of that? It seems like it's getting consistently strong. So appreciate any updates on your view on that segment.
Yes, absolutely, Mark. So look, on the Computing and Graphics segment, we grew about $140 million sequentially, and if I look at that growth, it was across Ryzen and Radeon. If you look at blockchain in particular, our estimates are that it was about 1/3 of the growth, 1/3 of the $140 million, and then the rest of the 2/3 are around the GPUs -- the other segments of GPUs and Ryzen. When I look going forward, clearly, blockchain is a little bit of a fluid and dynamic market. We did see some strength as we went into December. We see strength as we're going into the first quarter. I'm sure many of you have seen that the graphics channel is very low, and we're certainly working to replenish that channel environment. So we think that graphics in general is going to be strong into the first half, and that's some of what's contributing to our strong Q1 guidance. But overall, my comments are we're seeing nice momentum across Ryzen and all of the GPU segments, which is important for us as we go into 2018.
Our next question is coming from Stacy Rasgon from Bernstein Research.
My first is on gross margin. Can you give us a feeling -- do you expect Q1 to be the trough for gross margins through the year given you're guiding in line to maybe a little above for the year, where you're guiding Q1? And can you give us some feeling on the puts and takes of gross margins as we go through the year, particularly around things like business mix, lower seasonality and lower growth on semi-custom versus some of the new products for example?
Yes. Stacy, I can take that, and then Lisa maybe can add. As we start the year, as Lisa said, we do see momentum from the new products, the Ryzen, the GPUs and EPYC, and the margin is up on a sequential basis. We're starting off the year at 36%. We previously said that, for 2018, we expect margin to be greater than 36%, so it is a good start to the year, starting off well with a 36% guide. Obviously, the new products are having benefit then. And then the one thing I will add from what Lisa said earlier, in particular with the semi-custom business timing, is there is some incremental semi-custom revenue that gets recognized in Q1 as compared to the past from a timing in the year standpoint. But overall, I think the 36% is where we are starting off in Q1 and very pleased with that.
Yes. Stacy, the only...
So you do believe Q...
Sorry, go ahead.
I was just saying, so you do believe Q1 is probably a trough in terms of gross margins?
Clearly, Stacy, the first half of the year is usually the weaker half of our business because we are a consumer-led business. So as we -- starting off with 36% margin in Q1 is a good start. And we do expect that the new products will continue to ramp as we go through 2018. So I think that's how we view the puts and takes going forward.
For my follow-up, I know your competitors saw some unusual strength in the enterprise market and enterprise spending in Q4. I understand your exposure at this point to those enterprise wins is certainly less. But what are you seeing in terms of enterprise ramp? Are you seeing anything unusual or more or less sustainable in terms of strength versus what you'd ordinarily expect to see this time of the year?
Yes, Stacy. I think your question is about the market, and our market share is still relatively low. So our exposure with EPYC is there's a lot of activity, so there's a significant amount of activity with customers, both in all segments, cloud and enterprise. Although I wouldn't say that, that's necessarily a market trend. I would say that's sort of where we are with our EPYC qualifications and ramp. And so we don't see -- for example, we don't see that Q4 was especially strong, and there will be a drop-off in Q1. In fact, we expect that EPYC should grow as we go through Q1 and the rest of 2018.
Our next question is coming from Vivek Arya from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
For my first one, just a clarification. I know it's been off a few times. But what would your Q1 sales and gross margin outlook have been under the older accounting methodology?
Vivek, we're adopting the new revenue accounting standard under what is the full retrospective method because we believe this is most helpful to the investors, and for good measure, we have provided the Q1 '17 and Q4 '17 on a restated -- we restated the revenue and obviously, the Q1 2018 guidance under 606. We will publish the restated numbers as part of our 10-K. And from a Q1 2018 standpoint, if you look at the numbers, let's say, you compare to Q4 '17 on a seasonal -- on a sequential basis, the revenue is up quarter-on-quarter, and largely that's the strength of the new products in Q1 2018.
All right. I ask that -- you're starting the year at a very strong 30%-plus base, and you're saying double-digit growth for the year. And double digit is a very, very wide range. So Lisa, could you help us at least get some level set of what double-digit growth means for the year?
Yes. So we are starting the year strong, Vivek. I think maybe to give you a little bit more color on your question as it relates to the Q1 guidance. We are -- as Devinder said, we are giving all guidance and forward-looking comments on 606. However, the largest impact, particularly as it relates to revenue, is really sort of the semi-custom business. As you know, our custom business is a little bit unique because it's a singular customer, and so under the new revenue recognition rules, we would actually take revenue with non-cancelable POs. So that impact in the first quarter sort of guidance would have been about, let's call it, $100 million or about thereabouts. And so that might help you calibrate where we are. I think the -- any way you look at it, the new product strength is the most important factor, but we also want to be clear on what the accounting rule impact would be. Does that help you, Vivek?
Yes, Lisa, very helpful. And for my follow-up, traditionally, there has been a very large price delta between in your and Intel product, sometimes 50%, 60% plus on PCs and servers. As you look ahead with the new products, are you starting to see some of that price conversion? Like, are you being positioned in segments where you had not been previously, so you can get the benefit of much better ASPs than you've had historically?
Yes, Vivek, absolutely. So if we look at 2017 full year and look at our ASPs in the client business, the graphics business and the server business, albeit it's early, we are definitely seeing a significant ASP expansion as a result of the fact that our products are now covering the higher end of the market. So we're competing very well in the higher end of the market. I expect that there's still a delta, but that delta is converging given our product coverage.
Our next question is coming from John Pitzer from Crédit Suisse.
Lisa, while the year-over-year gross margin improvement has been strong both in the calendar sort of third quarter, fourth quarter and now on the guide in the first quarter, the sequential gross margin leverage is perhaps a little bit less than I would have thought, especially as you move into Q4 and Q1 and semi-custom comes down. Now I know there's been sort of a lag effect as Ryzen grows as a percent of the mix, but maybe you can help me understand where we are as far as Ryzen as a percent of the mix being a positive influence on gross margin. And then just relative to your long-term gross margin target of 40% to 44%, how far does Ryzen get you before you become more dependent on EPYC ramps later this year into 2019 and beyond?
Sure. So a lot of different questions there, John. Let me try to unpack it there. So let's talk about sort of Ryzen and sort of the margin both Q4 and Q1. On the Ryzen -- to give you sort of a flavor of where we are in terms of the new product ramp, Ryzen Q4 was probably in the high 40s percentage of our overall client business, and we expect that, that will be over 50% starting in the first quarter of 2018. And so that ramp definitely helps, and it's part of our sequential 100 basis point improvement from Q4 to Q1. I think in terms of overall new product revenues, if you take Ryzen, EPYC and then our new graphics products in totality, in Q4, they were about 33% of our revenue, and we expect that to ramp nicely as we go into 2018. So I think we are getting the margin leverage. The margin leverage certainly from Q4 to Q1 is due to the fact that we have strong products. And the thing that's a little bit different this quarter is because we are guiding under 606, and as a result of that, semi-custom, which is typically seasonally down Q4 to Q1, in this case, is actually up a little bit Q4 to Q1. And so that's a headwind on the margin, but overall, we're still up 100 basis points. Does that kind of get to the gist of your question?
No, that's helpful, Lisa. And then maybe a second question just on the OpEx. Revenue for the calendar first quarter, significantly above where the Street was expecting but so was OpEx. And I'm curious, is there any sort of unusual expenses around Spectre or Meltdown that's going on? And then to continue that, for the full year, you're guiding OpEx about in line with your long-term target. So is there opportunity that your long-term target can come down and maybe 28% of revenue on OpEx comes down over time? Or how should we think about that leverage?
Yes. So look, so relative to OpEx, I think our long-term guidance was 26% to 30%. Calendar year 2017, we were roughly approximately 30% if you look at it for the full year basis. We're guiding 2018 to approximately 28%, so we're starting to see some of that leverage granted we're starting off in Q1, which is usually a low quarter for us. And then as we go forward, we're certainly looking at more leverage in the model, but we are investing in sort of the key new products. We are investing in software, and I think that's absolutely the right thing for us to do. As it relates to any unusual expenses with Spectre and Meltdown, there are no particular unusual expenses related to that. I think what we are doing is we're investing in the business. We believe strongly in the product road map that we have, and given the significant revenue growth, we believe we can afford to invest in the business.
Our next question is coming from Joe Moore from Morgan Stanley.
I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about the product that you announced with Intel over the course of Q4, the semi-custom graphics product. I guess, interesting to see a few companies working together. Can you put that product into context for us? Are there things that you could do going forward? And then just is that going to be in the semi-custom part of revenues or in the compute part?
Sure, Joe. So the product that we announced with Intel was a semi-custom graphics product. So what we're doing is we're selling silicon to them. And then they're packaging it in a multi-strip module, and they're marketing it and selling to end customers. From my standpoint, this is an excellent way to get more Radeon GPUs in as many applications as possible. And so our strategy is we'll build our own standard products. We will build custom products for customers and then look for how do we get Radeon in as many places as possible. For this graphics revenue, because it's very similar to discrete graphics, we're actually reporting it in the Computing and Graphics segment, and we did see some initial revenue from that in Q4. But it is -- as I said, it's a semi-custom chip that is sold to them with their -- to be packaged with their products.
Our next question is coming from Ross Seymore from Deutsche Bank.
Lisa, one for you back on the crypto side of things. It was great to see the incremental color that you gave. But is there any way you could give an absolute dollar amount, whether it be in the fourth quarter or just full year '17 and how much you believe crypto contributed to your revenues?
Yes, absolutely, Ross. So it is hard to estimate. I think we said before it's hard to estimate just given some of the crypto -- sort of GPUs are sold through the same channels as our gaming channel. I previously said we thought it was about mid-single digits percentage of our annual revenue. It may be a little bit higher than that. Let's call it 1 point or so, but it's really a lot of our growth is outside of the blockchain market. What we see in the market though is, because I know there's a lot of conversation about this out in the market, it is an important market. I mean, we're now seeing it from the standpoint of there is a lot of dynamic movement in the market, but it is consuming a lot of GPUs. It's a good part of our business, and we intend to sort of work with the large players to better forecast that business going forward. But I don't want that to take away from the fact that we had significant growth in the GPU business outside of blockchain as we really ramped the Vega product line, as we ramped our GPU compute product line, as we ramped our Apple. And so those are all important pieces of our GPU story.
Perfect, that's helpful. As my follow-up, I wanted to go back to a statement you said in answering a prior question about the semi-custom business being up sequentially and then saying it was about $100 million benefit. Is that up sequentially you're talking about relative to the fourth quarter pre or post the ASC adjustment? Just trying to tie this altogether and kind of get the moving parts behind your guidance because it is much higher than, I think, where many of us expected it to be.
Yes. So let me try, and Devinder may keep me -- make sure that we're clear here. So the $100 million that I referenced was relative to the Q1 '17 adjustment, which was approximately $200 million or so. If you look at it on a sequential basis, it won't be up $100 million. It'll be up somewhat less than that, but typically, we're quite -- we're down quite a bit in semi-custom. And so it is a different seasonal pattern than we would normally see.
Our next question is coming from Brett Simpson from Arete Research.
I just had a question on crypto. I mean, if I look at the amount of hash compute being added to Ethereum in January, I mean, it's more than the whole of Q4. So we've seen a big start to the Q1. So I'm just wondering, what's the balance or the sort of mix in your C&G division between GPU and CPU sort of looking at Q4 and how it changes at Q1? And is there any sort of acute shortages here? I mean, can your foundry partners -- do they have the capacity to support you with the ramp of GPUs at the moment? And is there enough HBM2 DRAM to source as well?
Yes, right. So in relation to your question about client and graphics, look, both the client business and the graphics business grew sequentially in Q4. So both of them were strong businesses for us, and as I said, there are -- crypto was one driver, but there were numerous other drivers as well. Relative to just where we are in the market today, for sure, the GPU channel is lower than we would like it to be. So we are ramping up production. At this point, we're not limited by silicon per se, so our foundry partners are supplying us. There are shortages in memory, and I think that is true across-the-board, whether you're talking about GDDR5 or you're talking about high-bandwidth memory. We continue to work through that with our memory partners, and that will be certainly one of the key factors as we go through 2018.
And just a follow-up on 7-nanometer. I mean, a lot being talked about at 7 with the TSMC ramping fairly shortly and also Intel being perhaps a little delayed on 10-nanometer. Can you talk about what your plans are for 7-nanometer in 2018? Can you ship a CPU platform based on 7-nanometer in -- this year? Or is there -- are you also seeing some delays in 7 with your foundry partners?
So relative to 7, 7 is a very important node for us. We're doing very active development to the 7 across our GPU and our CPU portfolio. Relative to shipment dates, I'll wait until we get closer to production before we talk about that. But what we have said is that we will sample a GPU here in 2018 targeted at machine learning, and that will be in 7-nanometer technology. And we are also actively working on CPU products in the 7-nanometer technology as well.
Our next question is coming from Tristan Gerra from Baird.
You've mentioned that you expect very strong demand from blockchain in the first half. How aggressive are you in terms of embedding that type of trend in your Q1 guidance? Just trying to get a sense of the contribution from that segment in your Q1 guidance. And also, is the margin profile any different than the rest of your GPU business?
So I think as we said on the Q1 guidance, it is really strength across our new products, so it's not just the blockchain or crypto conversation. That's one factor, but we do see strength across the rest of our GPU business as well as our CPU business with Ryzen and EPYC. So of course, we take into account what we believe the demand will be here in the first quarter, and we think we're fairly balanced with that. And overall, given the current lead times, I think we have good visibility into what the order pattern is and so on and so forth. So I think the key point is crypto is strong right now but we do believe that it is a very dynamic environment, and so we have to watch that step very closely. And there are numerous other product drivers in our Q1 guidance, including the CPU business, which is an important driver.
Okay. And as a quick follow-up, in terms of the ramp of EPYC, should we look at a linear ramp throughout this year? Or is there more of an inflection point at any given time that you would expect or any given quarter that you would expect this year?
I do expect a steady ramp of EPYC as we go through the year. Our target is to be at mid-single-digit unit share by the end of 2018, and so there would be significant revenue from EPYC as we are in the second half of '18. But certainly, I would expect a steady ramp throughout the year.
Our next question is coming from Srini Pajjuri from Macquarie.
Just a couple of clarifications. First, I guess, Devinder, the accounting change, you kind of gave us an explanation how the seasonality works for Q1. I'm just curious as to how your seasonality changes as we go into Q2, Q3 and Q4 because, historically, you were down in Q1 and kind of flattish in Q2 and then up in Q3 and Q4. So just trying to understand how the accounting change impacts that seasonality.
Yes. I think the more significant change is from our semi-custom business. So we're going to see acceleration of revenue in the first half as opposed to where it used to be weighted towards the second half of the year. And that's just a timing issue within the year. Annually, there's not much impact. It's pretty immaterial from that standpoint. But timing-wise, you will see recognition of revenue earlier in Q1 and Q2, and then, obviously, we still have it in Q3 and Q4. So seasonality for the semi-custom business changes. As Lisa stated earlier, typically, Q4 to Q1 is down, and now Q4 to Q1 is up.
Yes. But I would add, though, just for that seasonality question. I think what you'll see is perhaps a little bit of a flatter profile. We used to have a very high peak in Q3, and now I think you'll see a little bit of a flatter profile with sort of second quarter still being higher than first quarter, third quarter or higher than second quarter, and then fourth quarter, we would expect to be down.
Great. And then, Lisa, just another clarification on Ryzen. Obviously, you're seeing very strong ramps. I would have expected you to see a little bit of ASP benefit in Q4, but it looks like ASPs came in flattish. I'm just curious as to why they're only flat, not up sequentially.
Yes, sure. So I think when you look at the ASPs, it's very dependent on the actual mix. And so underneath the client ASPs, we actually saw desktop a little bit lower, and that's because the desktop sales in the holiday season were a little bit more weighted to Ryzen 3, which has a lower ASP than some of the Ryzen 5 and Ryzen 7. But we actually saw mobile ASPs up because we saw the beginning of the shipments of Ryzen Mobile, which pulled ASPs up. So it's just a -- the detailed mix of the business. But overall, I think we saw very strong growth.
Our final question today is coming from Ambrish Srivastava from BMO.
Devinder, I just had a question on free cash flow since I pester you so much on it. Good to see a solid quarter on that front. But my question really is how should we -- you've guided for an increase in free cash flow for next year. Should we expect the same kind of dynamic that you've had this year, seasonality in Q4? And then also, you had to build up working capital and inventory specifically because of the dynamics on memory and the tightness earlier on the year. So what are some of the puts and takes there if you could please help us with that?
Yes. I think as you rightly observed, I mean, our strong quarter from an overall standpoint where cash is concerned, and cash from operations are very strong in Q4 and free cash flow was $339 million, ending at the $1.18 million, there is typically pressure on cash in the first half of the year just given the fact that the revenue is there, and we buy the wafers to support the business. And then it gets better in the second of the year. As far as working capital is concerned, it's a little bit early to tell. I think it depends upon how the revenue unfolds. Obviously, we have managed it pretty well, but supporting the higher revenue from the strength of the business is going to be the key from that standpoint. But to your point, I do feel very good as to where the cash ended up. I do feel very good with how we have done from managing the balance sheet for working capital and the debt levels. And 2018, we are guiding to free cash flow being positive for the year.
Okay. And a quick follow-up for you, Lisa. If we look at the double-digit growth for this year, what are the absolute dollar drivers in terms of which product categories do you expect within EPYC GPUs for machine learning or for Ryzen if you were to rank order those in terms of absolute dollar impact this year?
Yes. So if I were to rank order those, I would say that both EPYC and Ryzen, as we deploy Ryzen more into the notebook form factor, which is very significantly ramped, are very key for that. I think GPUs in machine learning are also a strong growth driver for us. But just given sort of where we are from the base that we're starting with, I think the other 2 are just more significant.
Thank you, Lisa. Thank you, Devinder, and to everyone who joined our call today. We appreciate you joining the fourth quarter conference call. We look forward to speaking with you again soon.
That does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your line at this time, and have a wonderful day. We thank you for your participation today.