Congratulations on the really nice quarter. I wanted to dig into Azure a little bit. I think growth overall in Azure this quarter is probably ahead of most people's expectations. And it sounds like the type of business that's being done on Azure is becoming more strategic and changing a little bit. So Satya, I was hoping you could talk to us a little bit about the types of workloads, the type of sort of services that are being used on Azure, how that's evolved over the past year.
And Amy, for you, maybe there's a new KPI, I believe, you gave us sort of the growth in the Enterprise Mobility up 55%. Was that in line with your expectations because I know you were sort of tempering our expectations on growth in that part of the business? Is that growing in line with kind of the slowdown you were expecting? Or is that better than you had imagined?
Yes, so let me -- first of all, thanks, Keith, for the question, and so let me start. Overall, in terms of the workload mix, it's been fairly stable, which is our hybrid value proposition really is -- continued to resonate, so that means there is a bunch of workloads that are migrating to the cloud. People use both Azure Stack plus Azure, so that continues to drive a lot of IaaS growth for us as people are sort of looking basically to lift and shift a lot of their current data center workloads.
Then, on top of it, we even have a modernization of apps that is accelerating, and that drives a lot of the higher-level services, in particular, our data services as well as our AI services when AI services are essentially compute, but what happens is all this compute then requires storage and data, and that's another place where we see increasing acceleration.
The one thing that I would say that I'm increasingly seeing is Tier 1 workloads. In some sense, when we think about some of the commitments being made by some of the biggest brands in the world in terms of what they're doing, one, it's very core to their operation. And two, they're running it in the cloud. And so that's one thing that definitely is a market difference for us.
And to your question on the per user services, specifically Enterprise Mobility, Keith, it was a bit better than I had anticipated in Q4. And really, the driver of these per user services such as EMS actually is the value proposition that Satya refers to and we refer to as Microsoft 365, and we saw strength broadly. And if you think about that, it's the Windows commercial, it's Office 365 commercial and EMS. And really that, I think, what we've heard a lot was the value of the security and management continuing to add more supported endpoints offer really tremendous value to customers, and we did see a bit more strength than I was anticipating in Q4.
The next question is coming from the line of Karl Keirstead with Deutsche Bank.
Congrats on a good quarter. Amy, the commercial unearned revenue and bookings were again super strong, and evidently, Microsoft is benefiting from fairly strong EA renewal activity. So when you look out into fiscal '19, how would you compare the degree of renewal activity versus fiscal '18 and fiscal '17? It sounds like you're still constructive, but I'd love to hear some color, whether it feels as good as the fiscal year you just ended.
Thanks, Karl. Let me break up that question a little bit because you actually asked a couple of things that are important. Number one, the unearned strength that we saw at the end of Q4, you're right, was very good execution on renewals on a reasonably large renewal base. But there was also very good execution of adding new workloads, adding new opportunity in Q4, things such as Azure, as an example, or Dynamics 365, as an example. So really, Q4 wasn't just renewal activity, it was also new workloads and new value.
So when you look into '19, I am optimistic on both of those fronts, good execution continuing on renewals as well as adding new value and new opportunity. And the third component of your question was really how did the renewal base correlate to FY '18. The answer is it's a little bigger but it actually has the same amount of volatility quarter-to-quarter. So Q1's renewal base is actually almost equivalent to last year.
The next question is coming from the line of Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.
I was wondering, Amy or Satya, if you can help us think about how Azure Hybrid Benefit has changed the type of net expansion rate you're experiencing on your ELAs that come up for renewal. And I know you were kind of a little bit touching on that with Karl, but is there any way to help think about how that, in particular, might be helping the expansion rate to those accounts? And can you help us think about how this might be -- how that might be helping drive growth in your existing contracts?
And then, the other question would be, you mentioned that you're moving from per user consumption that you're going to see more growth in consumption-based services versus per user Azure workload growth. And I'm just kind of wondering if you could share with us, is there any gross margin impact there? Does one have higher gross margins than the other? Is there anything that we should be taking from how you're parsing those comments about how we think of Azure's gross margin progression going forward?
Thanks, Heather. So on the first one, I actually think that these hybrid use benefits have been sort of the best kept secrets. So I'm actually hoping that going into this next fiscal year, we do a much better job and customers do a much better job for their own benefit because the advantage Azure has because of the hybrid use benefits across the entire workload are pretty phenomenal. And we had a good set of sessions at our partner meetings this week, just really making sure everybody understands those benefits. So I don't think that that has really played out. If we have seen anything, all the growth we have seen is in spite of that not being broadly really driving growth.
But to your second question, I'll even say the following, which is that I think there is clearly a difference in GM between the per user and consumption. But the key is even the consumption services come in different forms. There is the IaaS services, there is the data services and some of the higher-level services. Some of these IoT services now even have SaaS components to it. So therefore, I think that the mix will be different by quarter by quarter. But increasingly, our strategy is, in many times, to get customers to get going with what is core storage or core compute but then they scale into these higher-level of services.
And I would say, Heather, on those 2 components, just to add, the Azure hybrid benefits, I think we're starting, as Satya said, we started to see some impact from that, in my opinion, in Q4 in the on-prem KPI. But it really was more in Windows. And the value, as we continue to see in SQL next year, I do think there's some opportunity for customers to realize real value from these hybrid benefits. And so it sort of adds confidence to my high teens KPI growth for the year is that this is a very customer value-oriented offer.
To your question on GM, Satya's obviously correct on that one. And I would say, the way we think about it is actually more -- when you talk about Azure per user, it really does move more with M365 per user. It's almost better to put that in your mind as behaving more and having margin structures more like Office 365 and behave quite similarly. It tends to have good quarters when we do good execution on Office 365. And so my comments were more and continue to be around having people understand that sales motion and that it tends to move in that direction.
The next question is coming from the line of Mark Moerdler with Bernstein Research.
Congratulations on the quarter. So I have 2 related questions. The first is if you look at this quarter at  Intelligent Cloud revenue, it grew 23% and the gross margin dollars grew the same 23%. Given the fast-growing lower-margin Azure business, we're not seeing any longer negative margin impact. Have you reached the point where the incremental dollar of Azure revenue is close to the overall Intelligent Cloud gross margin?
And then, a second, I apologize, slightly long question. CapEx spending in the quarter and the full year were both strong. We could argue 2 possibilities, it's driven by all the capacity demand or you're having to spend a lot of it on replacing equipment as they're aging out. How should we think about the mix in CapEx between building demand and replacing what's there?
Let me take both those. On the first one, in terms of the GM this quarter, you're right. The improvements, particularly in the IaaS and PaaS gross margin of Azure did offset the cloud mix to Azure within the segment. Going forward, continuing to see that. I think we'll see more pressure on gross margin just because the amount of Azure in the mix at the rate it's growing, we're still not at that point where $1 of gross margin in the cloud is equivalent to $1 of on-prem. That being said, we have a lot, as you saw this quarter, room to grow gross margin dollars in that within -- even within that frame going into FY '19.
On your second question in terms of capital spend, if you think about it at a high level, our capital expenditures are growing at a lower rate than our overall cloud revenue is growing. And that's why you're starting to see leverage, right, flow through the P&L. And I think that the rate of CapEx growth, as I said, in FY '19 will moderate. That happens because, of course, we're doing some replacement but we're also adding regions and seeing a lot of global demand. And so, we're actually -- and improving margins. So I think that's -- when I put it at a very high level as you asked the question, I tend to think revenue's growing faster than my capital, you're seeing leverage through the P&L, and we'll see a moderating rate in FY '19 even if Q1 is a big quarter. It's just going to be volatile, as CapEx tends to be, quarter-to-quarter based on both supply chain and demand.
The next question is coming from the line of Walter Pritchard with Citi.
Amy, wondering on the Office product and services on the commercial side, you had, I think, 8% growth. It's the lowest you've seen. I know 606 drives some volatility in that business. Could you help us understand what drove that in the quarter? And I know you're making some changes like to support and so forth as we get into the out years. Is there any impact that you expect to the growth rate in that business as we look forward from those changes?
Thanks, Walter. The entire impact in that KPI, I actually feel very good about that number because, if you think about the $1 billion-plus beat we had to the unearned, it was partially due to the fact that we had very good mix shift to Office 365 in terms of billings in the quarter. Almost very little of that gets recognized in quarter. It almost all goes to the balance sheet. So my confidence for FY '19 in that number being the double digits we talked about in the full year guide only gets raised by seeing that execution. So it is really 606-related is the way to think about it, plus a mix of billings and billings strength. So I don't really think about that as being a negative. And you saw the exact same behavior in Dynamics, so it is a pretty similar in-period, in-quarter impact.
The next question is coming from the line of Phil Winslow with Wells Fargo.
Congrats on a great quarter and a great fiscal year. Amy, a question for you. You commented on the positive spread that you're seeing in the Windows OEM business, both overall but particularly on the commercial side. When you start to think forward over the next, call it, couple of quarters here, obviously, you told us what the positive drivers were. But how do you see those sort of playing out? And can we maintain that positive spread? And if so, why? And if it does maybe narrow, just sort of how do you think about the narrowing?
Sure. Let me frame it first as the things that I and we are seeing really customer-driven, which is, if you start with Windows 10 and the value that customers see and what we are seeing is accelerating enterprise deployment of Windows 10. When that happens, it does create demand for new devices and modern devices that improve security. So that then, in turn, results in a better and stronger overall OEM PC commercial market.
In addition, because the macroeconomic conditions are actually quite good on this front and with some business optimism creating some wind at our back, I also think people look and say, "If security and value are important, this is a great time to invest in modern PCs." And particularly in markets where Pro mix has been strong, I continue to expect to see all of those things happen through the course of next year.
Now what you will see, however, if all those things even do remain true, which I expect them to if the economic environment stays the same, H2, where we've had really strong revenue growth and a really strong market, will, I think, moderate growth-wise just because the base it was coming off of in '17 was just a lot lower. So even if I see all the good things and good trends happening that I feel really create a great opportunity for us to sell Microsoft 365, you will see growth rates moderate in H2.
The next question is coming from the line of Raimo Lenschow with Barclays.
Amy, can I go back to the server product? You partly answered it with the -- when Heather asked, and I believe hybrid cloud will be a factor here. But the growth was the best we've seen for a long time. Can you just talk about the drivers that kind of were at play here?
Thank you. You're right. The first one was the benefits that we saw from hybrid, in particular, with an outsized impact on Windows Server. The second has been a trend we also have talked about a little bit before. We saw strong double-digit growth in premium. So it was both mix shift as well as, I think, strength in the hybrid benefits as a value prop to customers. Those 2 are the ones I would actually call out as drivers for the quarter.
Good. I mean, they should be relatively sustainable if I listen to them -- to you.
I believe the one, I think, really important thing for us is continuing to focus on creating customer value. The concept of adding a lot of value by having and giving comfort to a customer that as they make a commitment to the Microsoft platform, that they can move between a commitment to on-prem to the cloud in a high value way, I do believe, is a unique thing that we offer at this time.
The next question is coming from the line of Gregg Moskowitz with Cowen and Company.
Satya, this is more of a big picture question but over a longer-term period, I'm curious how large you think edge computing will become relative to centralized cloud computing.
Yes, I mean, I think, the vision that we have always had is that distributed computing, in some sense, will remain distributed. So we don't split this into there's an edge computing, there's a cloud computing. The need for computing is, on a secular basis, going to increase. And as you need to reason over large amounts of data, you need not only storage and compute to be colocated all over as the world gets embedded with computing. That's what we are building for.
So if you think about our real competitive advantage and differentiation is, we have one programming model, one identity model, security, management so that modern developers as well as IT can use the compute available from Azure Sphere to Azure. And the reality is these modern workloads, in fact, use it all. So it's not like I just build an Azure Sphere application. I build an application that's fundamentally distributed that also happens to run some compute on Azure Sphere. That's, I think, the future, which is distributed computing going back to what needs to be truly distributed, event-driven, server-less even versus this thing about let's just have onetime migration to something new.
Our next question is coming from the line of Keith Bachman with Bank of Montreal.
Satya, I wanted to direct this to you, if I could. I'd like to understand how you view Dynamics' current positioning compared to the market opportunities? And the context of the question is Dynamics remains a fairly small part of Microsoft revenues. As well, if you look at the market share of where Dynamics serve, it's a fairly small part of the market served. So what do you think Microsoft needs to do to have a larger impact against the market opportunities?
Yes. So overall, we are very committed and very bullish about the opportunity in Dynamics. With Dynamics 365, for example, what you've even just seen in the last fiscal year, which has been the first full fiscal year where we've had this modern modular approach to business applications. I think it's very disruptive in the marketplace because it brings a very different value proposition. It has a price advantage and a value advantage for customers and in what is fundamentally a fragmented market, this is not business applications, never was and never will be a winner-take-all. I know folks think about it that way, but it's not. I mean, it's about one small category in one segment called enterprise. There is a share. High share is considered 20%, 35% or what have you.
So in some sense, this one has always been about being able to serve customers, especially in an increasing digitization world, right, which is the need for more business process automation is increasing. Take an IoT project, it translates into a preventive maintenance in Azure and then ends up as field service in Dynamics. That's been one pattern we've seen a ton of traction with. So to me, us going, in fact, to these new secular growth opportunities while being disruptive to the status quo of anyone who has high margin and very high-priced monolithic products today is basically our strategy going forward.
Our final question is coming from the line of Mark Murphy with JPMorgan.
I will add my congrats. So Amy, we keep expecting the Office 365 commercial seat growth to decelerate materially at some point based upon the penetration level. But this quarter, that seat growth actually accelerated about 1 point to 29%. And when we look back on it, the trajectory really isn't too different than where it was even a year ago. So I'm just curious, is there some underlying driver there that would keep that deceleration relatively manageable going forward? Or would you continue to see that slowing in a way that, over time, would exert a little drag on Azure through those per user Azure services?
This is one where, over time, there certainly is going to be a deceleration just because this is a per user business. M365 has that characteristic and Office has it, EMS has it. And so this quarter, actually, what we saw was actually some strength in education which added a good amount of seats this quarter as well as good execution across our other segments. So we did see a bit of growth that we're excited to see, frankly, in a segment where we've been working hard to make additional progress and add value. The team has actually done a nice job in that segment of creating some really modern offers to get that into the hands of that market as well.
But over the long term and as we continue to move aggressively, we will continue to see seat growth dissipate. But I would also say, this is going to take longer than I think maybe people would have thought. There are lots of users as we continue to redefine what Office is that you add to the base, whether that's first-line workers, whether that's an increasing number of small businesses who finally have access and value that we're creating for them across things from scheduling all the way to being able to work through minor business process adjustments like Satya has talked about.
So really, as we continue to redefine what Office means from something that people have always associated with Word, Excel and PowerPoint to things that mean mobile or video with stream or collaboration with Teams, I think we have opportunity to continue to add those new users, new types of users that we haven't had access before and new capabilities even to users we have.
Great. Thanks, Mark. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. Thank you for joining us today and we look forward to speaking with all of you soon. You can find additional details at the Microsoft Investor Relations website. Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you, everyone.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. Again, we thank you for your participation, and you may disconnect your lines at this time.