Our first question will come from Wamsi Mohan with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Tim, there has been some real deceleration in some of these emerging markets, partly driven by some concerns around some of the rules the administration is contemplating and partly driven by things that are more specific to China, for instance, like some of the regulations around gaming. So can you talk about how you see the trajectory there for the business and what you think of the initiatives of some companies like Netflix and Fortnite trying to bypass the App Store around subscriptions? And I have a follow-up.
Sure. Great question. Starting with emerging markets. The emerging markets that we're seeing pressure in are markets like Turkey, India, Brazil, Russia, these are markets where currencies have weakened over the recent period. In some cases, that resulted in us raising prices, and those markets are not growing the way we would like to see. To give you a perspective in -- at some detail, our business at India in Q4 was flat. Obviously, we would like to see that be a huge growth. Brazil was down somewhat compared to the previous year. And so I think -- or at least the way that I see these is each one of the emerging markets has a bit of a different story. And I don't see it as some sort of issue that is common between those for the most part. In relation to China specifically, I would not put China in that category. Our business in China was very strong last quarter. We grew 16%, which we're very happy with. iPhone, in particular, was very strong double-digit growth there. Our other products category was also stronger, in fact, a bit stronger than even the company -- overall company number. The App Store in China, we have seen a slowdown or a moratorium to be more accurate on new game approvals. There is a new regulatory setup in China, and there's -- things are not moving the way they were moving previously. We did see a few games approved recently, but it's very far below the historic pace. And as you're probably seeing, some of the larger companies there that are public have talked about this as they've announced their earnings as well. We don't know exactly when this will -- the approvals will sort of return to a normal pace. So I would not want to predict that. I do not view, just to try -- for avoidance of doubt here, I don't view that, that issue has anything to do with the trade-related discussions between the countries. I think that is strictly a domestic issue in China. In terms of larger developers, if you sort of step back and look at the value proposition for people from the App Store, there are 2 key constituencies in that equation. There's the user, and there's the developer. If you start with the user, what the App Store provides people is sort of the best and safest place for users to get apps. And we put a -- we have a tremendous process and infrastructure around achieving that. And where it is not perfect, we wind up reviewing 100,000 -- over 100,000 apps a week between new apps and updates for existing apps and then work with developers quickly to fix the issues. And we also provide the user a one-payment model for purchasing apps and subscriptions and in-app purchases, et cetera, so that they are not in a position that they have to share their private information across many companies. And so that's sort of the proposition for the user. For the developer, we obviously provide developers a tremendous amount of developer tools, programs, compilers, languages, of course, the operating system APIs, SDKs and have a huge developer relations team. And we do a tremendous amount of marketing for developers, including the new Today editorial that we just started in the past few months, personal recommendations search, tools and so on and so forth. And so if -- there will be -- there's no doubt, in my mind, there have already been some large developers that concluded that they could do something on their own. We're fine with that. I think Luca mentioned in his comments that the largest -- if I look at the largest developer, they make up less than 0.3% of the Services revenue. So it's probably good to think about that in that context, and there are millions of apps on the store obviously and 30,000 or so subscription apps. And so the subscription business itself is nearly as broad as the App Store itself is. And so that's the value proposition, I think, that the vast majority of people are very happy with it and including the most important people of all, which is the user.
Appreciate that response. If I could just ask you really quick on Apple's role in health care. It's been growing significantly since the early introduction on the Watch and then the various kits for developers, including HealthKit, CareKit, et cetera. And when you combine that with your very staunch advocacy for privacy, I see Apple could become a really large disintermediating force in all the friction in the health care industry today in the way medical information is shared and distributed. Is this the way that you see the future for Apple in health care? And do you see a means to also grow your Services business through the health care offerings that could become subscriptions to your customers?
I think Apple has a huge opportunity in the -- in health. And you can see from the -- our past several years that we have an intense interest in the space and are adding products and services, non-monetized services so far to that. And I don't want to talk about the future because I don't want to give away what we're doing. But this is an area of major interest to us.
Shannon Cross from Cross Research has the next question.
Given the $4 billion range in revenue that you're giving for the quarter and all of the -- all the things that are going on in the world right now, can you maybe give a little detail about the variables that you took into account when you were coming up with this, geopolitical trade, macro component costs, I don't know, if you can just give it some ideas as -- on what the puts and takes were?
Yes. Shannon, I'll take this one. And at the revenue level, we started from the fact that we are very, very excited about the lineup of products and services that we have getting into the holiday season. It's the strongest lineup that we've ever had. And our guidance range, by the way, represents a new all-time quarterly revenue record, right? As I explained in my prepared remarks, there are a number of things that need to be considered as part of this guidance range, right? The first one is the fact that the launch timing of the new iPhones this year is essentially in reverse order versus last year. And that has had an effect on Q1 -- on Q4 and will have an effect on Q1. Last year, we launched the top end of our iPhone lineup, which was iPhone X during Q1, and placed the entirety of the channel fill for iPhone X in Q1. This year, we launched the top end of the lineup, which is the Xs and the Xs Max during Q4. Obviously, this resulted in a more pronounced ASP growth in Q4 of '18 and obviously a tougher compare for Q1. So I think it's important to keep that in mind as you look at the revenue guidance that we provided. The second point that needs to be kept in mind, it is a fact of life and we've dealt with it for a number of years now, is the fact that when I look at currencies around the world, virtually every foreign currency has depreciated against the U.S. dollar in the last 12 months. And when we look at the impact of foreign exchange on our revenue for the December quarter, we're looking at 200 basis points of headwinds, which translate, given our -- the size of our business, to almost $2 billion of headwind to our revenue. The third point that I think is important to keep in mind, and Tim has talked about this, we are launching -- in the last 6 weeks, we've launched an unprecedented number of new products. They're all ramping right now. The ramps are going fairly well, but obviously, we have some uncertainty around supply-demand balance for some of these products. And then finally, the last point that we've taken into account is what Tim's talked about in terms of some level of uncertainty at the macroeconomic level in some emerging markets, where, clearly, consumer confidence is not as high as it was 12 months ago. So take that into account, and that's how we got to the range.
Okay. And then I just want to talk a little bit about the pullback in terms of guidance from a unit perspective. I understand you don't want to give guidance because 90 days is a short period of time and can be -- fluctuate. But what kind of qualitative commentary do you think you'll be able to provide? Because it's -- obviously, investors have spent the last however many years going P times Q. So how should we think about what we can expect? And sort of how are you going to manage this process as we go through? I know it's all our job to forecast but...
Yes, let me walk you through the rationale that we've used, and then I'll talk about this qualitative commentary that you were mentioning. As I said, right, our objective is to make great products, provide the best customer experience and get our customers satisfied, engaged and loyal to our ecosystem. When you look at our financial performance in recent years, take the last 3 years, for example, the number of units sold during any quarter has not been necessarily representative of the underlying strength of our business. If you look at our revenue during the last 3 years, if you look at our net income during the last 3 years, if you look at our spot price during the last 3 years, there's no correlation to the units sold in any given period. As you know very well, in addition, our product ranges for all the major product categories have become wider over time, and therefore, a unit of sale is less relevant for us at this point compared to the past because we got this much wider sales price dispersion. So unit of sale per se becomes less relevant. As I know you're aware, by the way, our top competitors in smartphones, in tablets, in computers do not provide quarterly unit sales information either. But of course, we understand that this is something of interest. And when we believe that providing qualitative commentary on unit sales offers additional relevant information to investors, we will do so.
Let me make one additional point there just for clarity, is that, Shannon, our intention is to continue to give revenue guidance at the company level and gross margin guidance in the other categories that we've been providing. And so the -- our guidance isn't changing. It's the actual report that changes.
Our next question comes from Mike Olson with Piper Jaffray.
With the staggered iPhone launch, were you able to discern any impact on the Xs and Xs Max from buyers potentially waiting for the XR? And what, if anything, can we take away from the December quarter guidance related to what you're seeing for early demand on the XR? And then I have a follow-up.
Mike, it's Tim. The Xs and Xs Max got off to a really great start, and we've only been selling for a few weeks. The XR, we've only got out there for, I guess, 5 -- 5 days or so at this point and so that it's -- we have very, very little data there. Usually, there is some amount of wait until a product shows -- another product shows up in look, but in -- that -- in looking at the data, on the sales data for Xs and Xs Max, there's not obvious evidence of that in the data as I see it.
Got it. And you mentioned record levels for various components of the Services business. As we look forward, if growth of Services is to maintain something close to the recent pace, what are the components of Services that you're particularly excited about that could drive that and be the strongest drivers? And maybe an offshoot to that, it seems like the news flow around augmented reality slowed a little bit in recent months. Is that potentially materially contributor to services in the near future?
Like as we said, during the September quarter, we set new records for many, many Services categories, right, from Apple Music to cloud services to the App Store to AppleCare and Apple Pay really has an exponential trajectory right now. When we look at our Services business, we think about the fact that we have a very large and growing installed base. The installed base of all our major product categories is at an all-time high and has been growing over the last several quarters. So the opportunity for us to monetize our Services business continues to grow over time. Of course, we are also improving the quality of the services that we provide, and if you look back during the last 3 years, we've added new services to our portfolio. We added Apple Pay. We added Apple Music. We added this advertising business on our App Store. And clearly, we will want to continue to offer new services over time. So there are a number of vectors that allow us to continue to grow the business over time. We have stated that we want to double the size of the Services business from the level that we had in fiscal '16 by 2020. We are well on pace to achieve that, and we feel very, very confident about the future of -- and the opportunities that we have in the Services space.
Mike, in terms of your question on AR, I have a different view than you do on this one. We -- just a year ago -- practically, a year ago, we came out with ARKit 1. 6 months or so after that, we came out with 1.5. We then recently came out with ARKit 2. The number of things that you can do are growing significantly. The number of developers that either have done something or even more the case that are working on things that I've seen are growing tremendously. There's a lot of interest out there. And the number of categories that I'm seeing from gaming to shopping to -- I was in China a few weeks ago and saw AR in the -- in an art sense, an art exhibit. I was in Berlin last week and saw it being used in a historical educational kind of sense. I'm seeing it sort of everywhere I go now. And so I think we are in the early days, and it'll keep getting better and better. But I'm really happy with where things are at the moment.
Next, we'll go to Katy Huberty with Morgan Stanley.
Tim, given the current trade negotiations and broader geopolitical risk, do you have any plans to consider diversifying the supply chain? And if you were to do that, either on your own or sort of forced, do you think it would have significant impact on the business or profitability?
Katy, if you look at the products that we've created and are manufacturing, they're really manufactured everywhere. We have significant content from the U.S. market. We have content from Japan to Korea to many countries, and we have great content from China as well. And so there are many hands in the products. The vast majority or almost all of the R&D is in the United States as well as a lot of the support organization. And I -- so as -- I think that, that basic model where you look around the world and find the best in different areas, I don't expect that model to go out of style so to speak. I think there's a reason why things have developed in that way, and I think it's great for all countries and citizens of countries that are involved in that. And I'm still of the mindset that I feel very optimistic and positive that the discussions that are going will be fruitful. The -- these relationships, these trade relationships are big and complex, and they clearly do need a level of focus and a level of updating and modernization. And so I'm optimistic of -- that the countries, the U.S. and China and the U.S. and Europe and so forth can work these things out and work for the benefit of everyone.
That's helpful color. And Luca, as a follow-up, NAND prices fell significantly during the September quarter. Why aren't we seeing that flow through to margin expansion to the overall company?
You're referring to the guidance that we provided for Q1, I imagine. And let me give you the puts and takes, Katy. You're correct, we are going to be getting some benefits from commodities in general and memory in particular. Memory, on a sequential basis, it's about 30 basis points favorable for us going into the December quarter. And obviously, we're going to be benefiting from the leverage, which is typical of our seasonality in the December quarter. On the other hand, as I mentioned before, currencies have weakened against the U.S. dollar. And the impact that we expect at the gross margin level from foreign exchange is a 90 basis points headwind sequentially. And of course, at this point in the cycle, we also have higher cost structures because, as I said, we've launched so many new products in the last 6 weeks. So those are the puts and takes, leverage and commodity savings on one side and FX and the new products on the other side.
Next, we'll go to Jim Suva with Citigroup.
A question for Tim and a question for Luca, and I'll ask them at the same time, so you can decide to answer the first or second. But operationally, Tim, I think your company is at a disadvantage relative to others in India giving where items are produced versus shipped versus taxed versus installed as well as ability to own stores. So can you help us address that? Is India going to potentially be a big area as I think you've got about only 1% market share, but it sounded like things may be softened there? And then for Luca, there'd probably be a lot of pushback about not giving iPhone unit data. It sounds like you're still going to give revenue data if I heard that correctly. But some people may fear that this now means that the iPhone units are going to start going negative year-over-year because it's easy to talk about great things and not show the details of things that aren't so great.
Okay. I'll start with India. We've had really great productive discussions with the Indian government, and I fully expect that, at some point, they will agree to allow us to bring our stores into the country. We've been in discussions with them, and the discussions are going quite well. There is -- as you point out, there are import duties in some or most of the product categories that we're in. In some cases, they compound. And this is an area that we're giving lots of feedback on. We do manufacture some of the entry iPhones in India, and that project has gone well. I am a big believer in India. I am very bullish on the country and the people and our ability to do well there. The currency weakness has been part of our challenge there as you can tell from just looking at the currency trend. But I sort of view these as speed bumps along a very long journey, though, in that the long term is -- I think is very, very strong there. There's a huge number of people that will move into the middle class. The government has really focused on reform in a major way and made some very bold moves, and I applaud them for doing that and sort of can't wait for the future there.
And Jim, let me take the question on units. First of all, as Tim said, our approach to guidance -- providing guidance doesn't change at all, and we continue to provide the same metrics that we were providing before. In terms of reporting results, one of the things that we are doing, and it's new and it's an addition to the information that we provide to investors because we've heard some significant level of interest around this, is starting with the December quarter, for the first time, we're going to be providing information on revenue and cost of sales and therefore, gross margins for both products and services. And this will be the first time that we're going to provide gross margin information for our Services business, which we believe it is an important metric for our investors to follow. Given the rationale on why we do not believe that providing unit sales is particularly relevant for our company at this point, I can reassure you that it is our objective to grow unit sales for every product category that we have. But as I said earlier, a unit of sale is less relevant today than it was in the past. To give you an example, the unit sales of iPhone at the top end of the line have been very strong during the September quarter. And that's very important because we are attracting customers to the most recent technologies and features and innovation that we bring into the lineup, but you don't necessarily see that in the number that is reported. And so therefore, we will -- as I said, we'll provide the qualitative commentary when it is important and relevant, but at the end of the day, we make our decisions to -- from a financial standpoint, to try and optimize our revenue and our gross margin dollars. And that, we think, is the focus that is in the best interest of our investors.
Jim, let me just add a couple things to that for color. Our installed base is growing at double digit, and so there's no -- and that's probably a much more significant metric for us from an ecosystem point of view and customer loyalty, et cetera. The second thing is this is a little bit like if you go to the market and you push your cart up to the cashier and she says or he says, "How many units you have in there?", it sort of -- it doesn't matter a lot how many units there are in there in terms of the overall value of what's in the cart.
A replay of today's call will be available for 2 weeks on Apple Podcasts, as a webcast on apple.com/investor and via telephone. And the numbers for the telephone replay are (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820, and please enter confirmation code 3699080. These replays will be available by approximately 5 p.m. Pacific Time today.
Members of the press with additional questions can contact Kristin Huguet at (408) 974-2414, and financial analysts can contact Matt Blake or me with additional questions. Matt is at (408) 974-7406, and I'm at (408) 974-5420. Thanks again for joining us.
That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for your participation.