Our next question comes from the line of Vivek Arya from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Bob, on 10-nanometer progress, any color on what you are doing. And systems you mentioned on shelves for second half '19, I assume that's mostly PC Client. Any sense to when we can think of timing for your server products on 10-nanometer also.
This is Murthy. I'll take that one. We continue to make progress on 10-nanometers. Yields are improving consistent with the time lines we shared in April. And yes, you're quite right. The systems on shelves that we expect in holiday '19 will be Client systems with Data Center products to follow shortly after.
So good progress on 10-nanometer and what we think is a very good lineup on 14-nanometer products for next year on both client and server that we think will deliver best-in-class performance as we continue to ramp 10.
Our next question comes from the line of Pierre Ferragu from New Street Research.
A quick follow up on 10-nanometer. When you -- when I look at this time line between now and (inaudible) season next year, 18 months is a very long time to improve your yield. And I have 2 questions on this one. The first one is, could you give us some color on what are the most challenging aspects of the process that you need to address to improve yields? What's the most challenging dynamic or process? And then my second question is how do you think about the impact of this delay on your competitiveness? Where do you think it is going to hurt you the most?
So let me take that. I think as we look at what we need to do in 10 nanometers, again, let me replay some of the data we shared on our April call. Recall that 10 nanometers strive for a very aggressive density improvement target beyond 14 nanometers, almost a 2.7x scaling. And really, the challenges that we're facing on 10 nanometers is delivering on all the revolutionary modules that ultimately deliver on that program. And while there's risk and a degree of delay in our time line on that where we're very pleased with the resiliency of our 14-nanometer road map where in the last few years we've delivered in excess of 70% product performance improvement as we move through our 14-nanometer generation of products. So as we look at 2019, across both client and data center space, we feel very good about the product competitiveness of our 14-nanometer program. And that, to some degree, is factoring into our timing of 10-nanometer and launching 10-nanometer at a point in time where we believe the yields are at a level that make it prime for volume production. So 14-nanometer, I think through the rest of this year and through 2019, continues we believe to drive product leadership across all our portfolios in clients and server.
Our next question comes from the line of John Pitzer from Credit Suisse.
Just relative to your data center expectations now for the full year, I'm just kind of curious what's been the biggest driver. You're kind of decelerating to mid-teens in the back half of the year, which is still very impressive. And I guess, as you talk about the question, maybe Navin can chime in. Once again, enterprise is much better than expected. And the 10% growth, I think, is what you referenced year-over-year in the June quarter. To what extent is that going to be more sustainable as you look into the second half of the year and into 2019?
Yes, thanks, John, I'll start and then have Navin chime in. Q2 data center growth was outstanding. We kind of started -- when we talked to you back in April, we started the quarter out strong. The middle of the quarter was strong and the end of the quarter was strong. So 27% top line growth for data center was -- we feel very good about it and see that momentum continuing into the second half of the year. As you know, Q4 last year was an outstanding year, so we had slightly tougher comps in the fourth quarter. But we're looking at real strong growth for the full year. And as I indicated earlier, the strength was across the board: cloud, up over 40%; comms services, up 30%. And specifically to your question, enterprise strength continues. And not only volume, but the trajectory of Xeon Scalable and the adoption of Xeon Scalable has accelerated a little bit beyond what we expect to driving real good ASPs. So real good first half, strong outlook for the second half and slightly tougher -- strong outlook in the second half across the board and then slightly tougher comps as we go into Q4.
The only thing I'd add to that, John, is that the demand is broad-based across all the segments that Bob talked about. And it's also broad-based in terms of our product portfolio. Xeon Scalable, we launched about a year ago and it crossed over, getting close to crossing over at about 50% of our volumes. So a lot of room still to go on Xeon Scalable as we look forward. And as I think about the product portfolio beyond Xeon Scalable, you might have seen this week at the Google Next show, Google talked about adopting the Optane persistent memory DIMM, so we have that product portfolio ahead of us in the second half. And then our next-generation Xeon will begin to ramp in the early part of '19. So general macroeconomic, all segment growth, people applying information technology to handle their data problems, combined with a very strong product portfolio as we look forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Stacy Rasgon from Bernstein Research.
I guess, one question. I wanted to ask about gross margins. Your full year guide implies a very significant deceleration of gross margins in Q4, like 300 bps sequentially, down about 59%. Can you talk about what's driving that sequential decline from Q3 to Q4? And do those drivers sustain into 2019, for example, is it 10-nanometer or mix or whatever? Can you give us some color on what's going on there, please?
Yes. Thanks, Stacy. First, I think the first half to second half dynamics, we're looking at an operating margin improvement by 1.5 to 2 points. So we see good solid op margin growth first half to second half. The dynamics are the gross margin, we expect to come down a bit and be more than offset by good volume leverage on a relatively stable spending base. So that trend of modest gross margin erosion more than offset by spending leverage driving op income improvement is the trend that you've been seeing for the last 6 to 8 quarters, and we expect that to continue into the second half of the year. When you look at -- implied in our guide for Q4, in particular, couple of things going on. One, accelerating growth of modem as we go through the second half of the year, accelerating growth of NSG or memory as we go through the second half of the year. A, we haven't assumed the continued strong ASP performance that we've seen through the first half. We hope that turns to be conservative, but we'll see how that plays out. And then, lastly, to your point, and Murthy mentioned earlier, we're ramping up 10-nanometer to improve the yield. So that's going to weigh on gross margins for the fourth quarter as well. So all things equal, we feel good about op margin expansion. We're up 500 basis points in the quarter. We'll be up another couple of points first half to second half, but the gross margin dynamics will weigh on us in the fourth quarter and spending will more than offset it. As we go into 2019, I think the way we've been running the business for the last few years, we have dramatically expanded our TAM. And with that TAM, we see more and more opportunities to invest and grow, and that growth is driving improved earnings for the company. At the same time, some of that growth has lower gross margins. But that expanded TAM, the higher revenue growth on a very well-controlled spending base is expanding our op income dollars and our earnings per share. So we feel pretty good about where we are as we exit 2018 and head into 2019 in terms of operating income for the business.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Seymore from Deutsche Bank.
I want to go back to the DCG side of things. Obviously, the 27% year-over-year growth in 2Q is very impressive in both its magnitude and its breadth. But I get a ton and an increasing amount of questions about competition, whether it's direct competition in the x86 CPU side of things or if it's a more indirect competition for a greater TAM from accelerators and FPGAs and the GPU compute, those sorts of things. So I don't know if it'd be Murthy or Navin, but I'd love to hear how you guys are looking at competition. And if you've taken the 10-nanometer aspect of competition and 7-nanometer for those folks off the table, talk about the design side where you think you can take share or there might actually be some pressure, and in general, how Intel reacts to the optimism we're hearing from a number of your aspiring new entrants.
Sure, I'll take that. It's Navin here. Look, we feel great about our competitive position. We came in to 2018 expecting a competitive environment. And against that backdrop, you've seen the results we've delivered over the last 2 or 3 quarters, and this is our third consecutive quarter above 20% growth. And really, that reflects our investments that we've made over several years. We have a leadership road map, not just in CPUs, but in, as you pointed out, a broad set of additional silicon, from ASICs to FPGAs to silicon photonics to memory. And our approach, really, has been to, over time, increasingly stitch all of those assets together to deliver a better solution for our customers. And that really sets us apart from everyone that we're competing with where one or another may have one of those solutions, but very few have -- in fact, none have that broad portfolio that we've been pursuing. So we are going to be aggressive in competing. We're going to have to go out and earn the business, just like we always have every day, every week, every month. And as I look at our road map now and as I look at our road map in the second half and as I look at our road map into 2019, I'm very confident that we continue to maintain that leadership on that broad portfolio of products. So we're set up for a great second half and another strong growth year as we head into 2019.
The one thing I'd add, Ross, is on the accelerator side, particularly the FPGAs. 18% growth for FPGAs in the quarter, and as we mentioned earlier, real strong penetration in data center. So that growth has been fueled by 140% increase in PSG in the data center environment. So I think, Navin, if I could, had a choice to make when he took over in the data center business and it was protect our large microprocessor share or dramatically expand the market and both protect our share as well as participate in a much bigger market, and that's how he and the team have been focused. And that's resulted in both protection of CPUs, but expansion of share, and a much broader TAM. So again, I'll just close with we feel great about what the team is doing in expanding the role we play in the data center and at the edge.
Our next question comes from the line of Blayne Curtis from Barclays.
I just want to ask you about 7. You mentioned 10 and timing there and I don't expect you to put a date out there for 7. So maybe you can talk about what you've learned on 10, how you're applying it to 7 and any indications of that development, how it's going.
Sure, Blayne. So 7 is very much R&D in deep progress and we're making good progress on that development. We're not giving a direct time line right now. But we've also made some fairly judicious choices in defining 7, learning from our 10-nanometer experiences. And we're focusing on an optimum balance point between density, power and performance and schedule predictability. So I think what you'll see is a more balanced approach across those 3 vectors. So we're still going to drive density, but balancing that with a continued focus on driving transistor performance at the same time, which is highly valued as ASP drivers, both in our client and server businesses. And we're really also focusing on being much more precise in our ability to launch. So those are the key learnings that are coming out of 10 as we go into 7. And as we monitor progress on 7 just as closely as we are on 10, I feel those lessons are being well absorbed into our progress. And we're lining up to support our product plans as our road map dictates.
Our next question comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri from UBS.
I actually want to go back to the question about gross margins in Q4. And I wanted to see if you can segment out the pieces because it seems like the modem piece could maybe be a 200 basis point hit just by itself. So I wondered if you could maybe segment out some of the pieces between 10-nanometer, between the modem and between ASP.
Yes. I presume by segment out, you mean quantify, and my answer's probably unfulfilling if that's the case. But I think you hit on the 3 things. And as we go into the -- as we enter the second half and the fourth quarter in particular, we see modem accelerating. We have a great product that's getting good traction in the modem space, so that product's accelerating and that obviously has margins a little lower. NSG growth accelerating. Going into the fourth quarter, those margins are a little bit lower. 10-nanometer ramping, and that will weigh on gross margins. And lastly, just our outlook for ASPs. ASP has been a significant contributor to our high gross margin performance over the last couple of quarters. Now we've assumed that it won't kind of stay at those levels. So those are the 4 components of segmentation. And then I just go back to with this high growth, we're getting really good leverage and expect our operating margins to improve as we go to the back half of the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Moore from Morgan Stanley.
I was wondering, so DCG, you guys have had an 11% ASP increase. And I know there's a lot of noisiness to that, but it's about double what you've sort of averaged over the last few years. Is that a Purley effect? And if so, do you sort of anniversary that and have less of an ASP increase going forward? Just how should I think about the price increase as you've seen there on average?
Yes, Joe. The ASP strength that we've seen, actually, really most of it this year is sort of a reflection of what we see our customers doing across the board. All of them are buying our highest performance products. There's sort of this insatiable appetite for performance on all the workloads that they're looking at. Certainly, we did expect the transition to Purley to be accretive to us from an ASP point of view. But if I look at our broad portfolio of products, our ASPs look very good. And year-on-year, our ASPs look good in the other parts of our products as well, Broadwell, for example. So in general, we're just seeing an almost insatiable appetite for the best products, the highest-performing products that we have. I don't see that slowing down as I look forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Ambrish Srivastava from BMO.
I just wanted to go back to the comments you were making as you were concluding your prepared remarks about demand challenges in the second half. Is that specific to Clients? Servers? And where is that coming from? And then, more importantly, does that open up another -- or a window for a competitor to wedge in and take some share from you?
Yes, when we started the year, our outlook for the year was $65 billion in revenue. And 6 months through the year, given strong demand across the board, actually, both servers and PCs. Real strong demand has raised our outlook by $4.5 billion for the year. So we feel very good about the demand signals we see at the $69.5 billion level. We feel very good about having the supply in place for that fairly significant demand increase. And now as we go to the back half of the year to the extent demand continues to increase, which I'd say it has almost month-to-month the first 6 months of the year, we need to work with our customers and our fabs to make sure that we continue to have the capacity to fill demand to the extent that it rises beyond the $69.5 billion level. So we're working closely with our customer base, both on the server and the PC side, and very closely with our internal teams to make sure we're not a constraint to the extent that demand in the second half of the year continues to go up like it has through the first 6 months of the year. And our intent is to fill that demand along the way and not give others the opportunity to fill it for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Danely from Citigroup.
Just a quick one on the DCG op margins. So Data Center rev was up sequentially, but the op margins were down. I think you talked about the 10-nanometer yield issues. Was that all that was going on there? And so essentially, our DCG operating margins kind of capped at this 49%-and-change level. What -- when are these 10-nanometer headwinds going to go away and reverse and start to become tailwinds?
Yes. So just maybe repeat, 27% top line growth and 65% operating income growth with an 11-point improvement in operating margins year-on-year. So outstanding performance on product margin, as Navin indicated, particularly with strong ASP performance, our margins have continued to improve and I'd just say not at the expense of curtailing investments for data center business. We see real good growth opportunities and we continue to invest. So really good expansion in margin performance while continuing to invest. In terms of 10-nanometer, that is more -- again, with client being first on 10-nanometer, they are more feeling the effect of the 10-nanometer on their margins. That's relatively de minimis effect for the DCG business.
Our next question comes from the line of Christopher Rolland from Susquehanna.
Murthy, you might have actually answered this with your shortly after comment. But given some competitive threats in server in particular, are you guys thinking that you might ramp 10-nanometer server more quickly than you traditionally would after PC?
In general, we're going to see a much shorter ramp period between our products going forward in client and server. So yes, I think it's a good observation. But as we talk about our client systems on shelf by the second half of '18, you shouldn't expect too much of a delay before you see the data center products coming out. So much closer proximity albeit slightly delayed than we expected on 10, and then you should see that pretty much improve to almost parity of launch as we get into later technologies. So the traditional model of server following rather lengthily after client is probably going to become more sequential going forward.
Our next question, we have C.J. Muse from Evercore back in the queue.
Sorry about the gap earlier. A question for you on your evolving manufacturing strategy. It sounds like, as opposed to [copying exactly], we're moving to a world where you would consider building both 14 and 10 in the same factory. So curious what the implications of such a move are to gross margins and capital intensity as we look ahead.
Yes. I think, obviously, from node to node over the last several nodes, frankly, the capital intensity of the business with each node hasn't -- has increased over time. At the same time, the amount of reuse of equipment and tools from one node to the next is extremely high. So with the exception of particularly 10 going to 7 litho-changing quite a bit with EUV, with each node even with more capital intensity, we have relatively high reuse, then we can leverage the tools for longer and longer. So in terms of implications on gross margin, I'd just say it's a function of product leadership and maintaining that product leadership. And Navin talked about how customers are looking for high performance and the ASPs associated with that high performance allows us to continue to generate extremely attractive gross margins, despite increased capital intensity as you go to each node.
I just wanted to add to Bob's perspective. The way I look at our road map, what we're really focused on is delivering product leadership generation over generation, and that's at the system level. And while processes are very important part of that recipe, so are the other ingredients as well, such as product architecture, silicon design and packaging. And to Bob's point, as we look towards our road map, gross margin maximization is going to come from delivering excellence that drives performance, and therefore, we're taking a very balanced view on all the ingredients that go into that. So you should expect in our road map going forward a much longer overlap between generations of technology as we try and make sure that, along with process, we add the other ingredients of technology leadership that will become more and more apparent.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Cassidy from Stifel.
Just looking at gross margin for the longer term, you named the 4 components. And as we look beyond fourth quarter, does modem gross margins improve? And is 10-nanometer less of a drag in the future? And can you kind of frame it, how long that would be?
Yes. I mean, first, we've been -- our gross margin performance has been very strong, in the upper end of our kind of long-term gross margin target. So we feel pretty good about where gross margin sits today. In terms of modem in particular, yes, we do expect to improve gross margins for our modem business, both with our 7560 product that will begin to ship in the second half. But also as we migrate to a 5G world, we expect margins in the modem business to continue to improve. So yes, we expect modem profitability to improve. We don't see it at the 60-plus percent gross margin level, but we do expect it to be a contributor to earnings performance as we go forward.
Our final question for today comes from the line of Tristan Gerra from Baird.
So looking at the fact that you're ramping for the first time a very high volume non-x86 architecture, what are the longer-term implications of something that you haven't discussed much more recently, which is the custom foundry business for the medium term?
Yes. Again, while we haven't talked about it that much, the custom foundry aspects of our business still remain very particularly important to us. We believe that as we continue to explore growth and partnership opportunities in our data-centric businesses, the ability to develop custom silicon products together with our customers is going to become increasingly important. So as we see our customer relations going forward, you'll probably see a lot more codeveloped products using Intel process technology in order for their delivery and their interworking with the product portfolio that Navin talked about. So custom products through a custom foundry relationship remain a strategically important part of our customer engagement portfolio.
All right. Thank you everyone for joining us today. Operator, please go ahead and wrap up the call.
Certainly. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your participation in today's conference. This does conclude the program. You may now disconnect. Good day.