Maybe 2 for Sundar, if I can. Referencing the blog posts and some of the changes about how you see the future of Search, I wanted to know what are some of the key investments you think the company needs to make so that Search becomes more visual or relevant. And what that might mean tying it back to the business for engagement with your products, relevancy of ads over the medium to long term. And then with respect to your comments on YouTube, we're starting to hear from advertisers there is some blurring between brand and direct response ad budgets as they look at products maybe more across blended lines. It sounds like the YouTube announcements coming out of Ad Week were about making YouTube more responsive or more direct response. How are you thinking about the blurring of those lines and what it means for product development long-term?
Thanks, Eric. I'll take the two. The first on Search. You're right that with Search, we are always trying to anticipate where users -- what the user experience expectations are and trying to meet them there. And increasingly in mobile, people do want immersive, engaging experiences. They want their experiences to be more visual, and that's partly what you saw us announce in our 20th birthday event. And we are excited to move in that direction. And I do think we have a lot of important assets to bring here. YouTube is a big part of what we do. We are investing in image search, and we do have products like Google Maps and Photos, which all add to that visual experience. And as part of doing that, we are investing in our advertising offerings as well. And so over time, we'll adapt that so they go hand-in-hand. But I think it's an important evolution for us. In terms of YouTube, I think it is -- part of what makes YouTube great is I think we can offer different opportunities for advertisers. We've always felt direct response is something that can work well on YouTube, and our instinct is bearing out. And I look at my personal use cases. There are many times now, sometimes instead of search, I actually find something I want to do in YouTube, maybe thinking about going to a place and I research it on YouTube. So I think it offers the same opportunity over time. And from our standpoint, we want to make sure we are evolving the product to bring those opportunities to advertisers. I'm very excited about it.
And our next question comes from Dan Salmon of BMO Capital Markets.
Sundar, 2 questions for you. First, earlier this month, or it might have been late last month, Sridhar Ramaswamy, your Head of Ads and Commerce, left to go to a VC firm. Betting that wasn't a surprise to you, but I'm just hoping you could shed a little light on sort of succession planning for that important role and whether or not you expect any sort of broad changes to ad product strategy. And then second, just amongst those announcements on the anniversary were the evolution of Feed to Discover. And I recognize that's an evolution of a product, but it does look like you're taking advantage of that long-unused white space on Google.com. And so just love to hear a little bit more, that's sort of a follow-up on Eric's question on the evolution of Search, but how you see that surface, in particular, evolving and particularly the potential for ad monetization over time.
Good. On the first one, look, I mean, we -- one of the things I'm really proud about Google is we have a deep bench of talent and, for example, in the Ads team, almost all of our senior Ads leadership has been here for well over a decade. And so for us, we are fortunate to be able to tap into it. Our Ads leadership comes -- Prabhakar, who has taken over our Ads product and engineering efforts, is someone I worked with for many, many years, and most recently has led our G Suite business, but has done many roles before as a deep computer scientist. And I expect to -- for him to continue our tradition of technical excellence with which he approach our advertising work. Also, I want to mention Philipp and his team, his extraordinary team, who definitely lead many of our initiatives here. And Philipp and, Prabhakar, with them, I think it's in great hands. And I expect a lot of continuity there. On your question on Search and Discover, it's -- in addition to making Search more visual, one of the things we are very, very focused on is not always do users turn to us and actually ask a question. So we feel our job is to be there when users need us, anticipate what they want and, sometimes, proactively meet them. That's where services like Discover really play a role, right? I think -- and we are thinking hard about how we can surface relevant information for our users, stuff they are really looking for, can act on in a way in which it's delightful for them and it's showing up for them when they need it. So I see that as an important evolution of Search as well. And so you're going to see us investing more. Mobile offers us a great opportunity. And if you use it in Pixel 3, that's the latest product in which we bring our vision of how to bring all these products together. And we'll give you a good sense of how we plan to do that over time.
And our next question comes from Anthony DiClemente of Evercore ISI.
First for Sundar, you spent some time on hardware. You spent time discussing your suite of hardware devices, the Google Assistant, the Pixel. How are you measuring the returns on those investments in hardware, both in the products and on the marketing side here, in a pretty competitive marketplace? What are the milestones for success that we should be looking for on hardware? And then for Ruth, as we start to look ahead to 2019, as you plan for '19, how are you thinking about the relationship between revenue growth and dollars of operating income growth for next year, particularly if the macroeconomic environment were to become, let's say, less of a tailwind to the broader ads environment as it was this year and in prior years?
On hardware, we always want to be at the forefront of computing. And so -- and a lot of times, that involves thinking across the whole stack, bringing together the entire experience in an integrated way for our users. And we genuinely see a very differentiated way to do this. We think our approach of bringing together AI, software and hardware is unique, and we think we can deliver the best-in-class experience. And we are committed to doing it. At the same time, we want to build a great business here as well. So we are investing in the long run because we see it clearly as an important business opportunity for us as well. So both go hand-in-hand. We closely look at metrics. And the metrics, we've been very focused on for the last couple of years. This is our third generation of hardware. It's the first time we actually are doing our products end-to-end, and we've expanded to newer categories. We look at user feedback and reception. We measure NPS scores. And our scores are now reflecting best-in-class in the category. And beyond that, we are looking at how the market adoption is, and we are thoughtfully building a business, but we are committed to building and investing for the long run.
And in terms of how we're thinking about planning, we're in the middle of it now. And many of the questions that have been already asked sort of point to the direction that we feel really good about the underlying strength in the Ads business. As we've talked about on numerous calls, we continue to invest here because we see ongoing opportunities, in particular, as we leverage machine learning to provide better experience for users and for advertisers. And some of the comments that Sundar made about the opportunities that open up with visual search, again, continue to point to the direction of direct response, continue to point to some of the underlying areas in which we're focused. But as we've talked about on prior calls, that's one element of it, and we continue to invest for opportunities that are sizable over the long term. Sundar has already commented on both hardware and Cloud as really important examples. And we think the steps that we're taking, the investments we're making, are -- provide kind of the foundational support for ongoing long-term, sustained growth. And so then we marry that with the second part of your question, which is on how do we think about the pace of investment. As we've said repeatedly, we're very focused on investing for the long term. We're trying to make sure that we prioritize crisply across the opportunity set that we have and we make the right types of trade-offs, but we do remain focused on long-term investing given the scale of the opportunities that we see.
And our next question comes from Mark Mahaney of RBC Capital Markets.
Two questions, please. One, Sundar, could you just update us with your thinking on China, the China market and the extent -- I know Google is already in that market, but the extent to which you want to expand -- reexpand your presence there with Search? And then in terms of Waymo, just a quick question. Commercialization of Waymo, do you know when -- do you have a sense of when you'll have pricing established and you'll have a roughly well-defined and action -- acted-on go-to-market strategy with Waymo? Is that the end of this year, beginning of next year, whenever?
And Mark on China, we obviously -- we deeply care about serving Chinese users. We've been investing for many years, and especially from developing Android. But more recently, we have launched mobile apps such as Google Translate and Files Go and improved our developer tools there. So we are constantly looking for ways by which we can better serve Chinese users. And that's where we are today.
And then, in terms of Waymo, in the third quarter, as I think you know, we extended our Early Rider Program to a larger group, and we moved into very early days of commercialization. So we do now have people paying for rides, and we're also testing pricing models. I think the main point, we've said this repeatedly, is that we are intently focused on safety first and ensuring a great user experience. And so what that means is we're really expanding the program methodically. We're taking an iterative approach as we continue to broaden the geographic footprint. And then on top of that, as we've talked about on prior calls, we've been developing the B2B opportunity. So in Phoenix, as an example, we've been piloting with several partners who are sponsoring a service on behalf of their employees and customers. And again, it's early days, so small revenues. But we're pleased to be testing this out as well and then, on top of that, continuing to explore, applying our technology for logistics and deliveries and for personal use vehicles and for last-mile solutions for cities. So you can see a move in the third quarter. But as we said repeatedly, it's very early days, and we are taking a very deliberate, iterative approach to broadening it out.
And our next question comes from Brian Nowak of Morgan Stanley.
I have 2. The first one on map monetization and putting some more ads in the map. Can you just talk about sort of early learnings there? I know you talked about local mobile searches growing quite rapidly in the past. But any early learnings from the monetization, the return that advertisers are getting on that front? And the second one on video games and Project Stream. Could you just talk a little about how you think about the gaming opportunity for Alphabet and what you think are the key factors you need to tackle to really build and scale a direct-to-consumer-facing cloud gaming product?
Look, on the ad stuff, we've had ad formats in Maps for some time, and we are constantly working to make it more useful and relevant. But I wouldn't underestimate the focus we have on local. Just to give you a sense, local mobile searches are growing faster than just mobile searches overall and have increased by almost 50% in the last year. So for us, that's an important focus area, and Maps plays a big role there. So we recently announced local campaigns, which is a new campaign type specifically designed to drive foot traffic to local businesses, right? And it's going to roll out in the coming months. And so that is a big focus. And as you pointed out, we are definitely launching and experimenting with newer ad formats on Maps itself. We have promoted places, which appears on the map itself. Have placed page ads, which appear on Google listings in Maps and Search. But we are definitely in the phase of putting those, testing it out, making sure the user experience works and making sure we can deliver value for advertisers. We are being patient here because the opportunity in local search, it's a big opportunity, and we are focused there. On your second question, look, we today serve our users on gaming across Google Alphabet in many ways, right? Obviously, Google Play does this a lot. It's a big important vertical on YouTube. And so we are -- so we touch with gaming developers across many areas already. And so we are thoughtfully thinking about what more we can do there. And Project Stream, I -- having spent my life on computing, I was blown away by seeing our ability to stream a game which needs real-time interactions, and to be able to do that from the Cloud. And it's one of the most important technological advances I've seen in a while. And so we are going to focus on that and make sure we are making progress there and bring newer experiences for gamers.
And our next question comes from Douglas Anmuth of JPMorgan.
One for Sundar, one for Ruth. Sundar, can you help us better understand how the remedy in Europe will work in terms of licenses and TAC going forward? And what impact do you see that having on financials? And then Ruth, can you just talk about where you are in the hardware replacement cycle in your data centers? Pretty major step-up this year just given that large ramp. How are you thinking about the trajectory into '19?
Thanks, Doug. On Europe, I mean, it's early to say. We'll begin on implementing the remedy in the next few weeks. But in all these cases, we always -- we're focused on complying with the commission's directive, and we want to make sure that the transition for both our users and our OEM partners is as smooth as possible. In this case, you're dealing with life cycles for mobile phones. So changes is going to take some time to reach users. And it's difficult to predict how the licensing model will be adopted. But our products are very popular with users across platforms. And so it's early to say, but we are focused on doing the right thing there.
And then in terms of technical infrastructure and our CapEx. As we talked about last quarter, CapEx reflects our view of the growing opportunity set in our core Ads and Search businesses as well as the longer-term opportunities in newer businesses, in particular, to support Cloud and then very importantly, as we've talked about, machine learning across Alphabet. And we're particularly excited about the opportunity with machine learning because it opens up more services and products for users and for advertisers and for enterprise customers. And so given our view about the long-term potential with these opportunities, we're very focused on ensuring that we have the needed compute capacity to support growth. And that's what you're really seeing with the uptick in investment. To give you a bit of a breakdown, the largest component continues to be machines. But relative to last year, it's important to note that data center construction is an increasing percentage of our CapEx investment. And so we're now in various stages of developing more than 20 data center sites globally. We're also investing in network infrastructure, such as undersea cable, so we can deliver speed and quality. So again, this really goes to our view of the opportunity set. Having said, we do remain very focused on optimizing the use of CapEx and also on compute efficiency. We're very mindful of the fact that our decisions here on CapEx don't just result in CapEx spend, but also translate into higher depreciation expenses, and that goes both to cost of sales and OpEx. So very careful about how we're using it but want to make sure that we've built for the requirements that we have. And as much as you asked about technical infrastructure, just a quick note that our facility spend, namely real estate, was more muted this quarter, and it was primarily just the ongoing work on our ground-up development. So you're primarily seeing what's going on, on technical infrastructure here.
And our next question comes from Ross Sandler of Barclays.
Two questions, Ruth. So you guys posted pretty solid growth all around. But if we look at some of the international markets, each geography had a tougher comp and decelerated a little bit on a currency-neutral basis. So I guess, stepping back high level, the growth rates are solid. But can you give us any color on the overall macro picture here? I think we're getting mixed feedback from different companies across different sectors. So any high-level comments would be helpful on just the ad market, given that you're close to 20% of global advertising ex China. And then, Sundar, a question on, I guess, Pixel and just the overall advancement you're seeing in smartphone devices. So as you guys roll out more products like Lens and Gboard and some of these other utilities on top of your 1 billion-plus apps like Search and YouTube, is there any way to parse out what the overall engagement looks like in markets like the U.S. and Western Europe when the phones are improving their functionality and you keep adding these additional utilities? Is core volume going up on a per-user basis? Any color there will be helpful.
So in terms of your first question, we actually felt pretty good about the strength globally, which I noted in the opening comments across the board, 20% growth in the U.S. on a $15 billion base. As Sundar noted what's going on in APAC, 30% year-on-year growth, it's now over a $5 billion revenue business, and we've had sustained quarter after quarter growth at this kind of 30%-ish area, feel really good about that. By country, it really does reflect broad-based strength. As you said, we're very focused on the region and we're delivering terrific products and experiences in rapidly growing markets. You see the same thing in Other Americas, neutralizing for currency movements, 28% year-on-year growth. So we're really proud of what the teams are doing around the globe.
And on your second question, one of the things we clearly see when we make a hardware product like Pixel, in which all the tools and the utilities we build are conveniently there, integrated and the experience is great, we definitely see users engaging more. And so we see an opportunity. And that's one of the bigger reasons why we do hardware as well, to show that end-to-end experience, both for our ecosystem as well as for us. It helps us give users a much deeper engaged experience as well. And when you look at all our products, we see that. And so we do see that as an opportunity.
And our next question comes from Michael Nathanson of MoffettNathanson.
I have 2 for Sundar, kind of the same theme. One on the Pixel 3. The marketing message is clear. The product looks great. But I wonder when you look at to date, the success of ramping the product, what's been the gating factor? Has it been the carriers? Has it been the price? And when we look at the factors for why it hasn't scaled as much as the product should have scaled, what are the factors? And then on Verily, you called out some deals with kind of the big pharmaceutical companies this quarter. But again there, I wonder, who's your most natural partnership? Is it hospitals, insurance, governments? So when we think about the big opportunity, where's the most natural fit to drive Verily going forward?
On Pixel. Look, first of all, part of the big thing is this is our third generation of hardware. Each generation, first of all, we've been scaling up the product in terms of even the number of units we can make and so on. So we -- if you remember the first couple of generations, we were struggling to meet the early demand we saw. This is the first year we have done it end-to-end, and we are ramping up from there. And so each year, when I look at all the metrics, be it NPS or be it our sales, be it our revenues, et cetera, everything is progressing well. But there are -- you're right, the gating factors to ramp this up, first of all, is to be able to build the supply we need. And second is go-to-market, getting ourselves in as many locations in retail as possible, in as many countries as possible, with as many carrier certifications as possible. So in each of those dimensions, we are making progress as well.
In terms of Verily, what we've talked about there is they have partnered with a whole host of leading pharmaceutical companies focusing on specific diseases, whether it's diabetic retinopathy or across the board for neurological diseases. I announced a couple of new partnerships, the ResMed arrangement as well as Gilead. And that's what they tend to do. They partner with best-in-class to focus on specific areas where working with the pharmaceutical companies, they can -- and the technology we have and benefiting from machine learning, we can really move from reactive to proactive care. That's the Verily focus.
The next question comes from Heather Bellini of Goldman Sachs.
I just wanted to focus on Cloud a little bit more. Sundar, you gave some good color in your prepared remarks. But I'm wondering if you could share with us any update maybe on the partner momentum and direct sales momentum you're seeing in the market, how you've seen that change. And also if you can highlight, if you've noticed that there's been noticeable changes in win rates over the last year as the product continues to mature. And you also, in the beginning of the year and exiting Q4, you would give us some high-level growth commentary about GCP, and I'm just wondering if you have anything else you could share.
Thanks, Heather. Look, overall, I mean, it's now -- now we've been doing this seriously, the next level, for 3 years. And we are definitely seeing strong indicators that are -- the investment in product is clearly beginning to work. Our value proposition does come through in many competitive situations. I've seen many important wins in what seem like very, very competitive situations. I also don't -- from the way we see it, it doesn't look like a zero-sum game. As you know, we're addressing a large market opportunity here. It seems like very early days. And more importantly, the general sense I get is we are very aligned with where the market is headed in the long run. And this notion of supporting open architecture so that enterprises don't feel locked in and allowing for a multi-cloud environment to develop, that's the direction we are betting on, and there are indications that the market is headed in that direction as well. So that gives us a lot of comfort -- that leaves us -- that gives us a lot of comfort as well. And on the go-to-market side, we have really ramped up both in terms of our investments, our direct investments, but also our partnership strategy is beginning to work. And when I look at the pipeline ahead, we are clearly seeing momentum there as well. In this business, obviously, the enterprise business plays in the way in which you do you have wins, but those accounts turn into larger revenue deals over time. And so it's very clear to us that we are laying the foundation, and we are getting the strong early momentum. And that's the big reason why we are investing in a strong way in the area. And over time, we'll obviously share more here as well.
And can I just ask one follow-up, if possible? I was just wondering, if you look at Microsoft, they have an on-premise and Cloud strategy. If you look at Amazon, what they're doing with AWS and VMware, they're kind of doing a similar strategy. Do you think there's a requirement for you to also have an on-premise strategy to solve this hybrid world as long as it's hybrid for?
We are thoughtfully looking at it. I mean, we are increasingly working with partners like, for example, our partnership from SAP or Pivotal, VMware. These are all on hybrid cloud solutions. And so we are thinking about how to do that better. And our overall approach to cloud hybrid modernization, I think, is the right long-term direction. And so we are doing that. There are many, many situations we are in where on-prem is a big requirement for customers. But with our partnership approach, we've been able to address the needs well. So I don't see that as gating issue for us.
And our next question comes from Brent Thill of Jefferies.
Ruth, I just wanted to see if you could quantify the FX headwind. I think it was a negative 1% for Q3. And in Q4, do you anticipate that to be similar or a little worse?
I will let you forecast the dollar. As you noted, it was a point here, went from a tailwind in the second quarter to a 1 point drag here going forward. But we called out the -- and we'll have more in the Q, but noted the impact, for example, of pretty big delta between our reported and fixed in Other Americas, 19% to 28% growth, and that was really what was going on with the Brazilian real and the Argentine peso. We saw some movements in other currencies around the globe. But you can see that, which is why we broke out the geography, the way we've done it a number of quarters ago to try and give you -- help give a better sense of the types of headwinds, and I'll let you forecast the dollar.
Okay, we look forward to that. Real quick just on EMEA, you were flat on your constant currency growth, 19%, 19% the last 2 quarters despite with GDPR. So I believe that would suggest that you're probably not seeing as big a headwind, perhaps, as maybe some expected. Could you just talk to the European business and what you're seeing there?
Look, I mean, specifically, I think your question is around GDPR and so on. First of all, I mean, we've always been, as a company, very, very focused on user privacy and security. And so in some ways, we were very early on engaged on GDPR. And we worked very hard to make sure our products are ready and in compliance. We've generally always approached our products with a strong privacy lens for our users. So -- and I think that helps us work through these changes because I don't think they are at odds with what we are trying to accomplish. I think GDPR is a very good and comprehensive set of regulations. And so I think it's been good to see a smooth transition on our products and for our users.
And we're continuing to invest significantly in Europe because we see the opportunity across Europe, and are investing in the communities in which we're working.
And our final question comes from the line of Justin Post of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
One quick one for Ruth. People are really asking about Amazon. Just wondering if your e-commerce vertical, was there any difference versus your other verticals in the quarter? Anything to call out there? And then, secondly, Sundar, a lot of interesting things going on with YouTube and Waymo and Cloud and other areas. As you look out 2 or 3 years, do you think any of these businesses could really make a financial positive difference on the bottom line for overall Google?
Look, I mean, I think on the first thing on e-commerce, maybe -- really, people -- we do see a lot of activity in the vertical on our products, and we see strong growth there as well. We see it as an important use case and that's why we are investing a lot. If you look at our recent work with Shopping Actions, that's an example of the kind of work we are doing there. And when we do those things, we clearly see users respond. Like, for example, on Shopping Actions, I think we just recently had partnerships with Best Buy and Nike and Sephora, I mentioned it earlier. So we are continuing to invest there, and we are also driving strong partnerships with the retail sector, both in terms of our shopping experiences as well as through Cloud. And I think that continues to be a big opportunity. And on your broader question, look, the reason we are investing across Google and Alphabet in a set of areas is because, as a company, over the past 20 years, we have developed deep capabilities in technology, in computer science and especially with machine learning and AI. And we see an opportunity to apply that across a set of important areas. There are a lot of opportunities ahead of us. We are pretty disciplined about where we're focused on. And we are focused on real large opportunities. And when we mention areas like YouTube and Waymo and Cloud and hardware, they all fit that category. But we take a very long-term view. And we want to invest to get the user experience right. And we are pretty confident that when we do that, the value will follow.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Ellen West for closing remarks.
Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again on our fourth quarter call.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.