Our first question comes from the line of John Pitzer from Crédit Suisse.
Yes, my first question just revolves around the revenue guidance for the March quarter. At the midpoint, down about 12% sequentially is a lot worse than, I guess, normal seasonal. And I guess I'm trying to figure out kind of the parameters that you guys are using to come up with that number. Was there something in the DCG strength in the calendar fourth quarter that you don't think is repeatable? Given your comments around the PC supply chain being healthy, that to me feels a little bit more seasonal than not in the March quarter. So I'm just kind of curious as to why Q1 revenue would be so much below what has been kind of the 5-year median seasonality for Q1.
John, thanks. It's Bob. So really 2 things going on. One, the enterprise growth in DCG, as Brian highlighted, was up 11% in the fourth quarter. So extremely strong seasonal growth for enterprise, a little bit more than we expected, frankly. That's number one. Number two, PSG's 35% growth was helped by end-of-life sales during the course of the quarter. And if you adjust for maybe a more normalized enterprise growth and PSG growth, you get to more of a seasonal Q4 to Q1 dynamic, so in line with seasonal if you make those 2 adjustments.
That's very helpful. And then, Brian, on my second question revolves around CapEx. I think it was a year ago on this conference call that you kind of mentioned that you thought that calendar year '17 and calendar year '18 would be sort of above trend-line CapEx spending for you guys, and then you thought it would come down again in calendar year '19 to a more normal trend, albeit you didn't quantify the trend. Just given the big uptick in '18 to $14 billion, I realize $2 billion of that's already being covered by prepayments, but how do we think about kind of the trend-line CapEx from here, especially in light of the changing relationship between yourself and Micron on IMFT?
Sure, John. So my perspective is, if you take a look at it, right, memory kind of -- I mean, logic on our CapEx just scaled with our increase in revenue and kind of our overall growth rate. So that's fell in line. With memory, we're going to take a look at it really on a year-by-year basis. And I'd tell you that Bob's really doing a good job of helping that business unit look over the capital. And when we have demand and people are willing to pay up front for that demand and reserve the capacity, like we've done this year, we're going to go ahead and put that capacity in place plus what we think the overall market we can do as distributing across the overall market. And that's really independent of that changing relationship with Micron. That's really more about how we're doing development work out in time, really, and that's actually still 2 generations away. That really didn't affect 2018. This was really about what we saw for the overall NAND memory market plus the additional capital and capacity that people wanted to reserve through that process. We'll look at that each year, John, and say, "Okay, as we look out into '19 at the end of '18, we'll do that same analysis."
I would just -- sorry, I would just follow on to Brian's comments. The way we're looking at memory, and we talked a bit about this on the last call, is increased confidence in our customers and the technologies that we're developing where, those relationships, they will help fund the scaling of the capacity to grow the business. And we're really trying to match net capital employed to be in conjunction with known customer demand. So what that means -- what that meant for 2017 is the net capital was roughly $1.5 billion, and we've held that relatively flat in 2018. So while gross capital is higher, we have more conviction in the customer base to fund $2 billion of the gross capital. So memory, we're really trying to focus on customer adoption of our technology to effectively and efficiently scale the business. And then just the only other point I would make on logic, remember, a year ago in terms of our outlook for growth, we're well ahead of our outlook for growth. We were probably, at the time, implied in our outlook was probably a $62.5 billion kind of number in 2018. Obviously, with our guide now, it's $65 billion. We're $2.5 billion higher. And it's that incremental growth that's placing more demands on logic capacity, both for 14- -- 10-nanometer and, as we think forward, on that 7-nanometer.
Our next question comes from Joe Moore from Morgan Stanley
I wonder if you could talk about OpEx. Obviously, you've been pretty disciplined there bringing that down, but you've also got some other initiatives. You've -- you announced a discrete graphics effort. Maybe if you could talk about -- it seems like that would cost a lot, if I just look at what your competitors are spending. And then, at some point, you're going to spend money on NAND that used to be shared with Micron. So just can you talk about the puts and takes there? And is there something that we should think about that's coming down to sort of offset those potential increases?
Sure. I'll start, and I'll let Bob kind of give you the under-the-cover detail of the dollars. But Joe, this -- really, we've already factored all of those things in. So things like the discrete graphics is a ramping spend. The memory is R&D spending out in time, so for '18 has no, really, effect. And then we've driven an overall efficiency in all of our R&D spending to offset that. So increasing in GPU spending, there's some other increases as well around things like autonomous driving and some of the other artificial intelligence and some of the emerging areas. You're right. Over time, we'll increase spending in NAND in R&D, but those are being offset by efficiencies that we're driving into the rest of our product R&D. And we really feel like we're getting to a good point where we can keep the pace of innovation going on our core products while we fund these new initiatives as well and not take a beat from our continued efficiency efforts across the spending as a percent of revenue.
Yes, Joe, I'd just add some numbers to Brian's words. We've kind of come down from 36% to 35% to 34% to a second half of 2017 at roughly 31% of revenue. So we've been coming down as we've been doing 2 things: One, the investments that we'd been making are paying off in terms of higher growth; and number two, we're making real trade-offs in where we're investing our money. As we go into -- implied in our guidance, as we go into '18, we're expecting our spending levels to be roughly flat with an annualized 2017 spending level. So we're going to -- and underneath that, continuing to drive efficiencies in sales and marketing as we become more of a B2B or data-centric company and getting real leverage on our G&A functions across the board. So we've made real progress during the course of the last couple of years. Including the second half, we expect to make continued progress while making the critical investments in things like discrete graphics, autonomous driving, artificial intelligence and continuing to invest in Moore's Law.
Okay, great. And then as you think about that NAND investment, I guess people have asked me what you're -- what the separation from Micron on a long-term path means. Does that mean there's sort of more of a focus on propriety products like 3D XPoint? Or do you remain firmly committed to sort of more -- to a more competitive NAND market?
Sure. So I just want to make sure you -- we clarify a little bit, Joe. The separation of development work is, again, out in time. Think of it in the 2020 time frame is when the real independence come, and it's NAND-specific. So we continue to work together on 3D XPoint. So -- and this is really just -- it's not a separation of the companies or something about the relationship. The relationship with Micron continues to be a good one, and I foresee it will continue to be a good one in the future as well. This is about direction of where we're going to take our products. And we've talked about ours are very data center-centric and really tied to performance and aligning to the customer market that we're really looking at. And so the spending in R&D we're talking about right now is purely NAND-specific. 3D XPoint continues to be a joint effort.
Our next question comes from Ambrish Srivastava with BMO Capital Markets.
Brian and Bob, I wanted to go back to DCG, specifically on the op margin front. We have not seen a [5-handle], if my model is correct, it's been 8-plus quarters. So can you please speak to the sustainability of the op margin and kind of what were the drivers that got you to that level? And then I had a follow-up as well, please.
Yes, so we came into the year and we indicated that we expected margins for the full year to be in the kind of 40% to 45% range. And obviously, we started out low, but we said our expectations were that it would grow throughout to the course of the year. A couple of things in the fourth quarter. Obviously, growth. So real good leverage on our existing investment was a big contributor. Secondly, ASPs were up 8%. So of the 20% growth, ASPs accounted for 8 points of that. And as Brian highlighted, whether it's cloud, comms or enterprise, customers in the quarter were really paying for performance. That performance for us was higher ASPs. Third, our continued progress on unit cost. And then, last, you may remember, last year's fourth quarter, we had some warranty- and IP-related charges in the data center business that I think cost us roughly 4 points a year ago. So last year's were a little bit deflated. But good volume leverage, strong ASPs as customers paid for performance and unit cost improving.
So we should expect this level going forward, Bob?
Yes, I think I wouldn't get too far away from the 40% to 45%, to be honest with you. I think, as we go into 2018, the good -- we think good cloud momentum, that's been consistent performance over the course of the year, last couple of years. Comms, our performance, we believe, was real strong in a somewhat sluggish market, so real share gains. But the high kind of seasonal enterprise growth and strong ASPs in the quarter, we think, are more seasonal in nature, and we're not anticipating enterprise growth to stay at these levels as we go into '18.
Okay, that's helpful. And then for my follow-up on the gross margin for next year, you provided the -- sort of qualitatively the adjacency as well as the cost impact from the XRAM. But, a, I was surprised you didn't mention competition because now AMD will have a full year of product in an area they never were for -- I shouldn't say never -- they were not in an area for a long time. So question is are you seeing any competition? Are you factoring that in? And then, b, would it be possible to quantify the 2 impacts that you mentioned?
Yes, I'd just -- I'd highlight 3 things that are driving the deterioration. But I'd start first with we've always characterized our long-term gross margins to be in the 55% to 65% range. And for the last several years, and included in our guidance this year, we'll be at the upper end of that 60% to 65% range. But for the last couple of years, there's -- we've had maturity of 14-nanometer. And that maturity, both in terms of getting more and more performance and lower and lower unit costs, has been contributors to gross margin. As we go into '18, we see 14-nanometer modest contribution from profitability because we've matured on the cost curve. That's an increasingly competitive environment, and we don't anticipate dramatic ASP improvements over the entire company. In some cases, yes, but for the most part, no. So we'll see some continued improvement in 14-nanometer products during the course of the year. Secondly, we are really accelerating the growth of our adjacent businesses. The investments that we've been making in both the data-centric businesses and our growth in modem, those are contributing to our year-on-year EPS growth. However, those -- both of those product lines or businesses have lower margins. So our success in modem and memory is having a mix impact on our gross margins. The third area is we're going from 10-nanometer start-up, where our costs are coming down, to more the ramp to the 10-nanometer. And that ramp is going to weigh on the margins as we begin to develop production going into the second half of the year where we're way up the curve on where our yields and costs are. So those are kind of the 3 things as we see it, and if I were to characterize, roughly plus 1, roughly minus 2, roughly minus 1, rounding those.
Ambrish, on your question about -- specifically around competition, I think, every year we look at it as a competitive environment, and we're out to compete for our customers. And so we factor that in each year appropriately, I think, against the competition. So we've looked at the competitive environment, and we believe Xeon Scalable, great performance that has, our overall product road map, we think we have a highly competitive road map and -- have adjusted for that in our forecast.
Our next question comes from Stacy Rasgon from Bernstein.
Firstly, can you walk us through your free cash flow waterfall? I can't get there. Flattish operating income on 4% revenue growth. You lose a couple billion dollars in ICAP gains. CapEx, I guess, maybe it's flattish with the memory prepayments. Taxes maybe gets me 1/3 to half of the way there, but where does the rest of the free cash flow come from? Are you just draining a ton of working capital or what? Can you walk us through?
Yes. First, $13 billion in free cash flow, up roughly 30% year-on-year. First, higher cash earnings. Our guide has EPS up roughly 14%. In that guide, there's -- depreciation has grown in '18 relative to 2017. So that has just higher cash earnings. Secondly, we do expect lower working capital as we go through 2018. Third, we have higher strategic customer supply agreements. And those 3 things are all contributing to the positive. And then obviously, Stacy, the higher gross capital is a bit of an offset. So stronger cash earnings, better working capital, more strategic supply, partially offset by higher CapEx.
Okay. For my follow-up, I want to ask about the growth next year of your kind of adjacent businesses versus your core businesses. Of that $65 billion of that 4%, can you give us a feeling how much of that is coming from the adjacent, I guess mostly memory and modems, versus the core? It must be decent, given the gross margin pressures. And I guess, as a corollary to that, you mentioned a one delay -- 1-quarter delay in data center memory. Is that -- was that a statement on XPoint?
No, that was a NAND -- I'll start with just the answer to that question first, Stacy, that, that was a 3D NAND SSD. We had some delays in the fourth quarter, and those are being addressed now. So that was that comment.
Okay. And growth -- I'm sorry, go ahead.
No, I think, on your first question, in the $65 billion, we characterized it as roughly low single-digit decline in our PC-centric businesses. So implied in that is PC maybe declining a little bit more and modem, i.e., adjacency within the CCG segment, partially offsetting that. In the overall guide, we said that the data-centric businesses would be growing in the mid-teens. And obviously, that's -- we believe that'll be -- the strongest growth segment within the makeup of our data-centric businesses will be in memory. And it will be a function of customer quals that Brian just highlighted, and we expect NSG growth to accelerate throughout the course of 2018, so single-digit decline on PC-centric and mid-teen growth on data-centric businesses.
So what does that memory strength imply for the data center growth, the DCG growth, particularly given the strong performance in Q4?
For the most part, the [wins] for NSG that will go through data center will be late in 2018 and won't really have an impact on the overall growth rate of that business. So it's primarily about growth of 3D NAND during the course of the year.
Our next question comes from C.J. Muse from Evercore.
I guess a couple of housekeeping questions, if I could kind of put them together. Curious if you could share with us how you're thinking about CapEx spend between logic and memory. And then, on the 10-nanometer start-up, can you share with us when you're expecting to begin depreciating those costs?
First on the CapEx, we indicated gross capital in the year of $14 billion, that we get customer strategic supply agreements of roughly $2 billion. So our net capital is $12 billion, $12 billion in the year. Again, I'd kind of break that into 2 pieces: memory, net capital employed, no change; and logic, CapEx up roughly $1 billion year-on-year. And as we mentioned earlier, that $1 billion is a function of, primarily growth, continuing to grow 14-nanometer; second, scaling up 10-nanometer; and third, investing in next node 7-nanometer during the course of the year. So those 3 things are really driving the $1 billion increase in CapEx for logic. The second part of your question, the -- so for 10-nanometer, as we bring that equipment online, we turn on -- there's some equipment now that's being depreciated. But as we build -- bring more online, as we ramp in the second half of the year, when we turn that equipment on is when we start depreciating it. So we'd expect our depreciation bill in the second half of the year to be growing. That's one of the contributors to -- yes, really to come full circle, that's one of the contributors to the gross margin deterioration during the course of the years as we start to ramp 10-nanometer.
Our next question comes from Vivek Arya from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
For the first one, Brian, I'm curious, are you baking in any effect on sales or cost or pricing from any resolution on the processor security issues? There is one line of thinking that says customers might decelerate their purchase, and then you have others in the industry saying that customers might accelerate their purchase later on. So I'm just curious how you're looking at the financial implications, positive or negative, from this issue near term and longer term.
Sure. So we'll try and kind of break it into 2 kind of answers for that, Vivek. From a cost standpoint, we've baked in and we've talked about that we don't expect any material impact of this security exploit on our spending or product costs or any of that. So that's how we baked that in. From a forecast standpoint, we actually made our forecast, and we've checked it, as we go through this -- the first few weeks here of the year, against our prior forecasts to make sure that the forecast incorporated any changes or any signs we're seeing up or down. And I'll tell you, at the highest level, we're not seeing much of a change in those forecasts as a result of this. So I'd tell you, it's pretty balanced right now. So spending, not material and didn't make any adds there. And then our forecast, we had a forecast. We've checked it as we go through the first few weeks of the year, and it hasn't really changed or altered as we looked at it.
And the only other thing I'd add, per Brian's comment earlier, we kind of go into the year realizing that it's an increasingly competitive environment. And our focus is on, right now, continuing to bring the best, highest-performance products to market, but also to -- lots of time and energy spent on focusing on fixing this issue, primarily through software patches as opposed to short-term hardware things.
Got it. And as my follow-up, for the full year, how should we think about growth in just the DCG business? I understand you gave some color around the entire data-centric group, which includes memory and other segments. But just sort of apples-to-apples, how should we think about growth in just DCG, which had a very strong double-digit growth year in '17?
Yes. Throughout the course of the year, we -- sorry, throughout the course of '17, we kind of guided to high single digits, and we kind of executed to that throughout. And then Q4 wasn't dramatically different than the first 3 quarters of the year, really, with the exception of the high seasonal spend for enterprise. And that really took us from a high single-digit to low double-digit or 11% growth for the year. As we go into '18, we do not expect that -- we think that, in the enterprise space, things will go back down to the negative single-digit range and, therefore, don't anticipate a dramatic difference in how we laid out DCG a year ago. So that's how we're thinking about it. If I maybe elevate that back up a little bit and just think about when we're putting together our plans for the year, there's 2 areas where our tendency is to be a little cautious on the outlook. One is PC TAM. We tend to be a little more cautious on PC TAM, and we tend to be a little more cautious as we think about enterprise growth in the DCG business. And the reason we do that is we think it's important to be cautious, get our costs in line. And if our assumptions on market rate to growth turn out to be conservative, we'll benefit from -- we believe we'd benefit from higher volume and real strong flow-through to net income. That's how we planned the year coming into 2017, and we did kind of the same thing for 2018. So I don't anticipate dramatically different DCG growth in how we laid out 2017 as we enter 2018, because we really haven't assumed a change in trajectory of enterprise CIO spending in the course of the year.
Yes, our last question comes from Blayne Curtis from Barclays.
I just wanted to go back to the DCG ASPs. You had talked about the ramp of Scalable being kind of to plan, but then I think you got a nice tailwind. I think you implied enterprise had a higher percent of Scalable. So I just wondered if you could just talk on broad strokes just where the Scalable ramp is here, and how your expectation kind of getting through the year, where that could go.
Sure. So I'll start, and Bob can add some number detail and all. The Xeon Scalable ramp is right in line with prior ramp of similar products on our DCG road map. And what you saw when we talked about Q4 was not necessarily more Xeon Scalable but people buying up the stock on Xeon Scalable, which drove ASP. So they're buying the higher-performance, higher-priced parts. And that's not uncommon when, at the early stages of a ramp, people come in and they typically want to buy the highest-performing parts at the beginning, and then they fill out their distribution as other buyers come in and other parts of the market kind of open up. So ramp's on schedule and aligned with prior ramps, and the ASP was more about buying up on the higher-performance parts than necessarily a volume statement.
Got you. And then I also want to go back on just -- sorry. I just want to go back on gross margin as well. As you look for March, you mentioned the drop is from adjacent business as well as 10-nanometer. Obviously, memory, you're signaling a big ramp, but it doesn't resolve fully. I'm just wondering if, Bob, you could just walk through the 10-nanometer start-up costs as they kind of move through the year, and kind of if you can outline, between those 2 in Q1, what's the bigger factor.
So I see mix dynamics are going to be a bigger factor overall for the year, both in Q1 and for the rest of the year, as our memory and modem business continue to accelerate strong growth. So that's going to be the biggest impact. I think 10-nanometer will have an impact just right out of the gate and will kind of continue throughout the year as we scale volume, but also need to improve yields during the course of the year. So hopefully, that's helpful.
All right. Thank you all for joining us today. Operator, please go ahead and wrap up the call.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes today's program. You may now disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.