Dave, I'm wondering if you could just help us understand the magnitude of the impact in the fiscal first quarter to the CPU shortages and just sort of the modest inventory correction we're seeing with some of your customers. And specifically, on the CPU shortages, do you feel like that's something that's limited to the fiscal first quarter? Or are you -- or should we think about that persisting into the fiscal second quarter?
Okay, yes, sure. So let me get -- take the first one. Let's start with -- so on the magnitude side, we're not going to go into necessarily the details, all the details in a granular fashion. Suffice it to say that they both had an impact in terms of the guidance of $7.9 billion to $8.3 billion They're a big driver of obviously why we guided in that direction. I don't know exactly how long the CPU shortage will last. I think on the inventory correction side, it will be a couple of quarters before inventory gets reduced.
And I will just add that [with the CPU] shortages, we expect it to be short term. It's possible that it goes beyond Q1 as well.
That's helpful. And, Sanjay, maybe as a follow-up. In your prepared comments, you talked about 2019 being a year of transition for your SSD business as you bring out NVMe product. I'm wondering if you could help us understand what that means from a financial perspective for your SSD business. Do still expect growth in that business in fiscal year '19? And kind of how do we think about profitability as you transition from SATA to NVMe?
As we said, we have gained substantial shares in SSDs, primarily based on SATA SSDs over the course of 2018, our fiscal 2018. And we are very pleased with the progress we have made there. And, of course, market is shifting towards NVMe SSDs, and that's where the future growth opportunity lies. And we have been working on our NVMe SSD solution. We plan to introduce our first NVMe solutions later this year, and then we will be ramping, as we said, in the client and consumer space, bringing new products into the market in calendar year 2019 and bringing, later on, enterprise and cloud, NVMe SSDs later in the year, in the 2019 year. So our NVMe SSDs will be ramping up gradually over the course of 2019. Of course, we will continue to maintain a solid share position with SATA SSDs. Overall, I expect that our total share in SSDs will continue to be flattish in 2019 time frame, and we expect to resume share growth from [a] 2020 time frame as we complete our NVMe SSD portfolio. And by completing NVMe SSD portfolio, I mean, complete the development of SSDs, get them qualified with our customers and ramp them into production. So we are very confident about the long-term opportunity for us in SSDs, leveraging our low-cost 64 layers NAND as well as our 96-layer NAND solutions over the course of next few quarters.
Our next question comes from Romit Shah of Nomura.
[Just in like] your commentary, and certainly, the CapEx paints a fairly positive view of the environment and certainly more positive, Sanjay, than what we've heard from your largest competitor, who appears to be reducing investment and preparing for a protracted downturn. So, I guess, my first question is, how confident are you that the adjustments you're seeing is really just a 1 or 2 quarter issue?
I think most important to understand is the end market demand trends for DRAM as well as NAND continue to be strong. I mean, when you look at data center and cloud applications, AI is in the very, very early innings. And the whole cloud growth is in the very early innings as well. We see the DRAM requirements in enterprise and cloud data center application to be growing much faster than the total average DRAM industry demand growth, CAGR over course of few years of about 30%. Similarly, in mobile applications, DRAM is growing nicely as well, as machine learning kind of features, as facial recognition, et cetera, get implemented in these forms. We are already starting to see 6 to 8 gigabyte, even 10 gigabyte, coming in smart -- high-end smartphones now, and these are not too far -- and then you even see 12 gigabyte in smartphones. And similarly, on the NAND front, when you look at average capacities increasing in smartphones, you are seeing now 512-gigabyte smartphones being offered, and again, days of terabyte smartphones are not far away. And certainly, with elasticity in NAND, average capacities in client computing applications as well as mobile devices will increase as well as attach rate of SSDs will increase. So this is important. When you look at these demand trends, we feel very confident about the long-term trajectory. In 1 or 2 quarters here or there, there can certainly be ebb and flow in terms of demand or supply in the industry, but the long-term trend is positive. And specific to our CapEx, I'll just point out here that we are being very prudent, very disciplined in managing our CapEx, absolutely focused on profitability and ROI. We had mentioned that our CapEx on cleanroom construction and facility upgrades is increasing by $2 billion compared to last year. And Dave mentioned that it represents about 25% of our total CapEx guidance that we provided. And just as an example of our discipline on CapEx management in NAND, in terms of equipment CapEx for 2019, our fiscal year 2019 versus 2018, we have -- we are actually reducing the CapEx fiscal year 2019 versus 2018. So we are extremely focused on technology conversions, technology transitions because they are the best way for us to achieve cost competitiveness as well as ROI on our investments. We are not adding the wafer starts, where some other competitors may have thought about those in the industry.
I think a lot of us certainly believe in the strong secular trends that are driving your business. What's been a little surprising though is just the rate of change in pricing both in NAND and, it seems more recently, DRAM. Can you talk a little bit about that? And you mentioned some customer inventory. I'm curious, which segments do you see that elevated?
So I think with respect to the inventory question that you have, it's very important to understand that we are not talking about debt inventory adjustment in any particular segment. This is with few customers. It is a customer-specific inventory adjustment that we discuss here. And, of course, we cannot call out those customers on this call. And with respect to pricing, of course, we do not forecast pricing. But you look at our F Q4 results, our DRAM pricing was flat, and 71% gross margin, record gross margin, extremely healthy. Industry environment, we see going forward as well for DRAM. As I talked about, the demand drivers are vibrant for DRAM, they are diversified and they are secular in nature, and DRAM solutions are really bringing great value to the AI-driven kind of applications where they're really essential to that trend. And you have to keep in mind that the supply growth is slowing down as well, given the increased technology complexities and greater CapEx that is required to implement the technology transition. So overall, we continue to see healthy DRAM industry fundamentals. On the NAND side, as I mentioned, this year, calendar 2018, we see NAND supply output growth at approximately 45%, and this, as you know, has been there because the industry, over the course of last several months, has gone through a major transition from 2D NAND to 3D NAND with a 64 layer. And the industry at this point is already on 3D transition in terms of total bits on a calendar year basis at about 75% level. So going forward on NAND as well, as you look at transition in the future to 96 layer, that will have the same kind of [consideration] that increase technology complexity and reduced bit gain per wafer from 64- to 96-layer transition. So we see moderation in the industry supply aspect in the first half of 2019.
Our next question comes from Amit Daryanani of RBC Capital Markets.
I guess, 2 from me as well. First off, could you just maybe help me understand, when I think about the gross margin guide for fiscal Q1, it's down 300 basis points, I think, sequentially. How much of that is due to the tariff issue versus what's going on in memory broadly? And then as you go through fiscal '19, do you think these margins that you can improve throughout the year, especially as you [resolve] some of the tariff issue -- challenges?
Yes. So, first of all, the gross margin guidance was 57% to 60%. So, of course, if we hit the higher end of that range, we will be 140 basis points down. Clearly, tariffs are impacting us, probably to the tune of 50 to 100 basis points. And as we talked about, we're working on steps to mitigate that. That obviously takes some time. We have to do some things operationally to get ourselves in a place where it isn't as impactful. And so it will be a quarter or 2 probably before we start to see some benefit from the improvement there. So that was certainly a factor on the gross margin side. I would say, in general, the market for DRAM is healthy. The market for NAND is well supplied. So we built in various expectations, depending on kind of how things play out from a revenue perspective, and that certainly drives some of the gross margin adjustments as well. But suffice it to say, if we look at this from a year-over-year comparison, gross margins, I think, in the first quarter of 2018 were 55.4%, if I'm not mistaken. So we'll be above, on a year-over-year basis, if we hit within the range of what we expect, anywhere from 160 to 460 basis points.
That's really helpful, Dave. And, I guess, if I could just follow up. On the NAND side very specifically, pricing has degraded for a couple of months, and your data, obviously, [that you put] showed that has declined as well in the quarter. Again, I'm somewhat surprised that you haven't seen demand elasticity kick in with output or your demand, I guess, improving much more dramatically. So I'm curious, what do you attribute perhaps to the fact that demand hasn't stepped up more attractively as pricing has come down? And do you think there's just a time lag for it to get there? Or is there some other reason why we aren't seeing it?
So let me take that. In terms of demand elasticity, we are certainly seeing that. I think in smartphones, you do see a move to higher capacities. I referred to that in my previous comment in response to the previous question. In SSDs, which is currently [limited] to consumer and channels-related SSDs, with the benefit of lower-priced NAND, certainly, you see -- you are starting to see -- there's always some lag. Average capacity increases in those channels as well. So overall, NAND should definitely continue to benefit from price elasticity.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Arcuri of UBS.
I had two. So, Sanjay, first, I wanted to see if you can provide some color sort of in terms of your reduction in cost for DRAM in fiscal 2019 and whether you think it'd be similar to what you reduced cost in DRAM in fiscal 2018?
So we are not going to provide full year guidance on the cost side for fiscal year 2019, but I will tell you that we believe we are in very good position with respect to continuing to execute on our technology and manufacturing road map and realizing cost reduction. Of course, as we have said before, when you go from 1 technology node to the other technology node, you achieve less bits per wafer gain, and that impacts, of course, the cost reduction capability from 1 node to the next node. And again, the laws of physics are the same everywhere, and this is common across the industry, as we discussed at our Investor Day. So 1Y technology in mature years will provide less cost reduction than 1X technology provided over the 20-nanometer. Nonetheless, our position will be good in terms of cost reduction. Things that we discussed at Investor Day, we feel very good about our ongoing march toward strengthening our cost competitiveness. And, of course, in NAND, we are in very good position with the lowest-cost technology in the industry.
Awesome, awesome. And then I had a question on the fiscal 2019 CapEx. So Samsung is pretty significantly -- well, not just them, but both of your peers are pretty significantly reducing DRAM CapEx next year. And it sounds like if I strip out the infrastructure and the building portion, that your equipment spending on DRAM is going to go up next year. So I'm asking about the juxtaposition of you increasing your DRAM CapEx when your peers are pretty heavily cutting DRAM CapEx next year. So I wanted you to talk about that dynamic and, specifically, what it would take for you to cut DRAM CapEx next year.
So let me just point out that in 2018, we were well below the industry in terms of overall CapEx. And overall, we definitely are absolutely focused on technology transitions with respect to our CapEx, and we believe we have, really, a prudent disciplined focus, as I said before, in terms of addressing our CapEx toward equipments, targeting it toward technology transition and bit growth coming from the technology transition. We have mentioned that calendar year '19, we see our supply bit growth in line with the industry on DRAM side, which we expect to be approximately 20%. And in NAND, we have said that we expect our fiscal year 2019 supply output bit growth to be -- industry to be in the range of 35% to 40% and for us to be somewhat higher.
And I would say, as we talked about in the prepared remarks, we do react to changes in our view, and we did reduce our CapEx plans for NAND in fiscal 2019. So we are able to make adjustments as we see changes.
Yes. And, of course, we retain some flexibility in terms of managing this on an ongoing basis as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Aaron Rakers of Wells Fargo.
Two, if I can, as well. Kind of building on that last question. As we think about what you've said about 96-layer and less of an incremental capacity increase when compared to that of 64-layer, I'm wondering if you could provide us some framework of how we should think about the next phase of transition to NAND in terms of bit output increases on a per wafer perspective. And then I have a quick follow-up.
So at this point, we are not providing specifics on 96-layer and how much you gain per wafer, but I think some of it can be obvious as well. You are going from 64-layer to 96 layers. And future generation beyond 96-layer will tend to have, again, reduced bit gain per wafer. All of that is obviously -- along with the assumptions of industry ramp of 96-layer, is baked into our overall guidance of fiscal year -- calendar year '19 NAND bit growth of 35% to 40%. It's slowing down because, again, 64-layer to 96-layer will give you less gain. So in 2018, you saw a onetime increase in NAND bit growth, given that the industry went from 2D to 3D transition with 64-layer. Going forward, it will revert back to the same curve of less and less bit gain and, of course, more CapEx requirements with each successive technology transition.
Okay. Fair enough. As a quick follow-up, I'm curious, you talked a little bit earlier about your NVMe positioning and then the portfolio expansion. You didn't talk much about quad level cell or QLC. So maybe if you can update us of where you see that positioned and when we should expect to see that kind of impacting the SSD business as we look through calendar '19 or into 2020.
So in my prepared remarks, I did mention about QLC, and we have -- we are the first ones to introduce QLC SSDs in the industry, very proud of Micron's ability and execution in that area and very proud of our team to be able to do that. And we have just begun with certain set of limited customers taking that QLC SATA SSD product to the market. This will be a growing revenue for us within SSD next year. Although it will remain relatively small, it will initially be, of course, in the SATA QLC solutions. As in the past, when you went through MLC transitions in the NAND industry or you went through the TLC transitions in the NAND industry, those transitions occurred over the course of few years, and we similarly expect the QLC transition to be happening gradually over the course of next few years, although we will start realizing revenue from QLC SSDs starting now, but -- then continuing to increase it modestly in calendar 2019 as well. And, of course, focusing on it in the SSD space.
Our next question comes from Harlan Sur of JPMorgan.
On inventory adjustments, is this primarily client side or data center side? And is this a statement more about just kind of higher accumulated inventories in the first half? Or is this a statement around the overall demand environment coming in less than expected or a combination of both?
So as I said before, this is not limited to any particular segment. It is more specific customer consideration. And given the kind of pricing that had existed in the DRAM market, certain customers have certain inventory levels that -- in a certain inventory strategy that they were pursuing. And those customers have decided to adjust their inventory levels. So that's what we refer to in our remarks. In terms of the end market demand for those customers and end market demand for DRAM application, that continues to be solid. It's just an inventory adjustment approach of some of our customers.
Great. And you guys have done a great job of improving the NAND mix. I mean, your margins actually went up in the quarter. Given the strong cloud spending trends, you obviously have a great mix of enterprise and cloud SATA products. The transition to NVMe is going to be slower than expected, so I would anticipate your SATA products continue to do well. So on a go-forward basis, and given your customer spending trends, do you guys anticipate continued mix-based improvements and benefits in your NAND business from a gross margin perspective?
I mean, absolutely, we will continue to increase our high-value solutions mix, which means SSDs as well as managed NAND solutions for mobile application, including discrete managed NAND solutions as well as multichip packages, where, of course, we have a significant benefit because we have both DRAM and NAND. So absolutely, this is part of our strategy. We will absolutely continue to increase our mix of SSD and managed NAND solutions, high-value solutions. Just want to remind you that we had shared at the Investor Day that in fiscal year '17, we had about 40% of NAND revenue coming from our high-value solution, that means SSDs and managed NAND solutions. And in fiscal year '18, we increased that to a little over 60%. In fact, in fiscal Q4, our managed NAND and SSD mix, the high-value solutions mix in NAND is over 2/3. So this just goes to show you that we are absolutely working toward our goal that we had shared with you at the Investor Day, that by 2021, we will have 80% of our NAND revenue in terms of -- actually, in terms of managed NAND solutions. So this is going really well for us, and it, of course, provides us the benefits in terms of profitability as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Mehdi Hosseini of SIG.
2 questions. Sanjay, you have been referencing visibility onto data center. I think it's something that, I think, investment community would really appreciate if you could give us the thought process that gives you the confidence. And what are the key metrics that gives you the visibility? Anything here that could be specific would be really great. And I have a follow-up.
So, certainly, I think when you look at the data center, the total CapEx increases particularly in the hyperscale application, a lot of that CapEx, (inaudible) go toward server and memory and storage application. But that certainly is an indication of the continuing year-over-year growth (inaudible) certainly an indication of [keeping] opportunity. But again, I will point out that we are in very early innings there. And this is going to be a multi-year growth opportunity for us. And we are actually focused on working closely with the customers in this space. And through those discussions, we had good visibility from them in terms of our opportunity for the future. So we feel very good about our growth opportunities in this part of the segment here.
Sure. I completely agree with you. And I think your Analyst Day provided a lot of detail and informative information on how the opportunities could be. I think what we are struggling with is how to model this, even if it's not on a quarterly basis, maybe on a 6-month basis, because perhaps, opportunities by 2020, 2021 are enormous. But what happens in 2019? And how should we think about cloud CapEx? In the past, we had PC units and we had content. We had smartphone units and the content. But now the cloud -- either an Internet company or a software company providing cloud services, it's very difficult to model this. And we have to think about how '19 will look like before all of these opportunities would materialize. And I was just wondering if there's anything you can share with us to help us with the thought process.
So I think one of the things I will share with you is that if you look at the DRAM demand growth projections in the cloud and enterprise data center space, you will see that, that CAGR over a few years is 30%, and that is higher than the expected DRAM overall industry supply bit growth of 20%. So this is one of the fastest growth areas where DRAM, along with NAND, really bring a lot of value to those customers. I think at our Investor Day, we had taken you through the details of how AI-driven applications are requiring 6x more DRAM per server and 2x more SSDs per server. So I think you have to look at all of these trends. There is no one particular trend that I can point to. You -- in this regard, of course, you have to look at the cloud CapEx. You have to look at the average capacity increases that are taking place on the DRAM side as well as for the NAND side in cloud applications, the server attach rates. The CPUs that are going into the servers have more memory channels that's enabling more DRAM growth per server content in the data center application. So there are many of these things that all absolutely are pointing to strong demand drivers. And just to end the comment here, I would point out that our end market applications are well diversified in DRAM. Of course, cloud and data center is 1 strong growth area for us, but mobile, automotive, industrial, IoT, all of these are also growth applications. For example, in automotive and industrial, we have #1 market share, and that's a very stable kind of market opportunity. And we are doing very well. Graphics is another example, right? We are very strong positioned in graphics as well and another growth opportunity. So multiple growth drivers and we are well positioned. The message is the industry is structurally different, and Micron -- the new Micron is also structurally different. And we are well positioned to drive the business going forward.
Okay. And if I may just have a quickie one for David. How should we think about your NAND and DRAM aggregate inventory? Are there number of days? Or how has it changed sequentially?
Well, inventory in total is probably all we are breaking out, which inventory on a days basis right now is in kind of the high 90s. It's been that way for some time now. I would say we're comfortable with our inventory position. Having said that, if you remember in the Analyst Day, Manish, that runs operations talked about some of the things he was doing to improve the efficiency of the manufacturing group and, on top of that, improve, in particular, the back-end and try to make that more streamlined. And there's a whole bunch of things we're doing in terms of system improvement and process improvement that I think will actually have a pretty good effect on inventory going forward. So over time, I think you'll see us carry a lower days of inventory and improved working capital in the process.
Our last question for this session comes from C.J. Muse of Evercore.
If I could ask two. First one, on the call, you talked about moderating NAND supply in the first half of '19. Curious, with the construct of inventory adjustment at a few of your customers, could you kind of walk through how you're seeing DRAM supply/demand, particularly as you also layer in some of the cuts that we've seen from your 2 other competitors in terms of equipment add over the last 6 to 9 months?
So as we mentioned, we see DRAM to be healthy in Q1, and we definitely see healthy demand supply chain for DRAM beyond that as well, given the well-diversified growth drivers for DRAM. So overall, we see DRAM in balance. And regarding the inventory adjustment, I just want to be clear that, that comment is related to DRAM.
Very helpful. And then as my follow-up, on the buybacks, you talked about a $1.5 billion or roughly 3% of the company. I'm curious, given you had the 10b5 program in place September 1, should that be front-end-loaded, thus more material benefit as we go through this quarter and next? And then also, considering you're now, I think, $2.5 billion, plus or minus, net cash position, at these prices, would you consider being even more aggressive?
Good question, C.J. And I do want to thank investors for being patient with us a little bit. We announced this in May at the Analyst Day, and we needed a few more months to get the balance sheet to where we wanted. As you mentioned, now we have a great net cash position, we have debt now below $5 billion, that is 0.3x EBITDA, and we have great liquidity. We're now over $9 billion of liquidity, and we said we wanted to be 30% of sales in liquidity. So we're in a very strong position entering fiscal 2019, which I think is great. Our intention is to be fairly programmatic about the buyback, and so that $1.5 billion does represent more of a programmatic-type approach. Having said that, we did mention that we have layered, on top of that, some opportunistic repurchases, and so that will be somewhat timing-based, based on when the opportunities arise to take advantage of buying back a little bit more. In both Sanjay and my prepared remarks, we did talk about acceleration. And if you look at the $1.5 billion and kind of make some estimations around our free cash flow for the first quarter, you'll probably get a figure that is above the 50% free cash flow number we said we are committed to. So I think it is in the cards for us to be a little bit more aggressive over time, and we obviously think that this is a fantastic price to be buying the stock at.
And ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation, and have a wonderful day. You may disconnect at this time.