Amy, if I go back and look through your KPIs, it looks like the year-over-year growth in commercial bookings has never been this high on a constant currency basis; at least I was able to go back through fiscal '13. You mentioned an increase in the number of larger long-term Azure contracts, which obviously is a driver of this. But is there any more color you could share? Is this coming from a handful of customers, I mean, that are just driving all of their -- like outsourcing everything to you guys and shutting down their data centers? Or do you see this as kind of a broad-based trend even in some of the industries that have been slow to move to the cloud where this is really starting to snowball?
And then the follow-up would be just Azure gross margins where you guys have done a remarkable job just continuing to increase efficiency there. How much room is left to go? And how do you think about the percentage of COGS in Azure that are variable versus fixed? And has the ratio been changing?
Great. Heather, let me try to take both of those questions. On your commercial bookings growth question, I find it easiest to think about commercial bookings, before I answer the larger question about onetime, in 2 ways. The first is the expiration base absolutely does matter, and that's why we talked about it. And we had a, actually, very good quarter here in terms of renewals and what I think of as revenue recapture where we're able to grow the revenue in existing contracts. And so that absolutely contributed and has contributed over the past couple of years to what I do believe has been reasonably consistent commercial bookings strength versus the expiration base.
The second component is what I would put in bucket of new business whether that new business comes as what you saw this quarter, 2 ways: there was some on-prem strength this quarter. It does show up in bookings. It doesn't show up in unearned, and it does show up in the P&L. We had a good quarter there. And we did have some large Azure contracts, which tend to be longer-dated and tend to have low billings upfront. That means it shows up in bookings and again not in the unearned balance in the same way.
And so you will see as we go forward, and you're already starting to see it, more volatility in this number not just based on the way we've traditionally talked about it, which is the movement of the expiration base but also in some of these larger, longer-term commitments by what we now think of not just as customers, but these are really now partnership relationships that we have where, to your point, we're co-collaborating to help customers be successful as they build their digital future. And so you will see a little bit of volatility in this number as those contracts and those types of contracts start to land.
On your second question of Azure GM, we have continued to see strong improvement in the core gross margin of Azure. The team has done a nice job on a number of fronts, continue to make progress on both software innovation but also importantly hardware innovation and working with our supply chain to continue to have and see benefits on that side. Also is increasing use of premium services also contributed to Azure gross margin improvement. So while we remain focused on efficiency and the utilization of the hardware and software, it's also important to continue to see premium upsell, premium workload usage, so that customers are getting the most out of their deployments and usage of the Azure platform.
In general, I -- it hasn't changed a ton in terms of that final component about fixed versus, I think, variable base. It's still been in that, I think, low 40% as a range for us in terms of what's depreciation versus what's more variable.
Our next question comes from the line of Keith Weiss from Morgan Stanley.
A very impressive quarter. I'm going to pick a similar question to Heather's but directed at you, Satya, to try to get a higher-level answer. In terms of -- during this quarter, it just sounds to me like I've heard Amy talk more about exceeding expectations than we have in prior quarters and exceeding plan more than we have in prior quarters. This matches up from what we're hearing in our CIO survey as we've been talking to customers. It almost sounds like there's an inflection point going on in the adoption of cloud and digitalization efforts. So the question to you is are you guys seeing that? Are you starting to see an inflection point in terms of these adoption trends and the investment that you guys have made behind this really starting to take hold?
And then perhaps a follow-up for Amy. So operating margins really exceeded our expectations this quarter and I think consensus expectations. Could you talk a little bit about kind of what drove that and kind of why we wouldn't see as much of that on a go-forward basis in terms of operating margin expansion?
Yes. Thanks, Keith, for the question. So let me start. I think overall, what we are seeing is continued momentum. If you think about even -- our overall approach has been to have a view of an architecture that is grounded in our customers' needs. So we always believe that in distribute computing, you need a cloud and an edge. You need hybrid. And guess what? Today, in 2019, hybrid's become much more mainstream, but we were talking about this even 5 years ago. They also sort of said things that will matter in this transition to the cloud will be consistency and productivity. So for example, whether it's developer productivity or IT productivity, it's not any one dimension, you need to bring IT and developers together to drive agility in an organization and the digital capability building. This is again a place where we've had also traditional strength and that's showing up in the marketplace.
And also, if you look at our cloud stack, we have application and infrastructure, data and AI, productivity and collaboration as well as business applications, that's pretty unique again. So that's, I think, what is showing up at scale as competitive differentiation, and that's what you see in our numbers. But most importantly, I think you see it in the customer momentum and what I believe is what is customer success. Digital technology today is not about tech companies doing innovation. It is about the rest of the world doing innovation with technology, and Microsoft's uniquely in position to enable that.
And on your operating margin question, Keith, there's a couple of things I would say that in this quarter in particular, the places where we had a lot of outperformance were especially high-margin areas, and I would point out 3. The first is obviously the OEM and chip supply. The improvement in that in Q3 is obviously very high margin and falls to the bottom. Japan as a geography for us is a high transactional market. And so when Japan is strong, it tends to be a very high margin landing down to the bottom line. And the other one is the on-premises server number, which is very good, in terms of hybrid demand this quarter also is high margin. So when that happens, you do see, because it's a lot of -- almost 100% in-quarter recognition, a lot of help at the operating margin line.
Now the more sustainable conversation, I think, we continue to have on operating margin is our ability to pick the right secular markets and the right secular trends. You see significant revenue growth. We continue to focus on improving the gross margin of each individual product area, which creates leverage over time. And finally, focused investment in operating expense, and that obviously creates leverage. And I think you do see that in general through the year as we've continued to keep that formula.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Moerdler from Bernstein Research.
Congratulations on a really strong quarter, everyone. Amy, Satya. Amy, can you delve into the impact of Azure hybrid benefits on Azure revenues, server and tools, renewals? I don't think it's really well understood. Does it have any meaningful impact on Azure's reported revenue growth because of the fact that some of this is appearing in server and tools? And Satya, can you give us some added color on why this specific offering is resonating so well with customers, which is what we're hearing?
Yes. Maybe I can start on the second part and then leads to the first question. I would say, Mark, the main thing that this offering enables is the flexibility with which customers can adopt hybrid computing. And as I've always said that there is -- hybrid computing is important for workloads that are more in the characteristic or can be characterized as lift, shift and modernize. So that's one motion. And then there is new world hybrid as well, which is people are building. In fact, they'll do an AI training job in the cloud but want to deploy the model close to the edge. And in both of these cases, hybrid benefits actually help with -- our business model is basically differentiated in supporting the architectural needs and the flexibility needs.
The one additional thing I'll mention, which is increasingly becoming clear to us, is operational sovereignty will become important. The world and its distributed computing needs is not going to become some homogeneous set of requirements, but it's going to be very heterogeneous, very, in many cases, regulated. And so what we provide in terms of both the technology and the business model, I think, shows up with the maximum flexibility.
And maybe let me talk a little bit about the question around server products and services and how to think about the hybrid use benefits. In general, today, Mark, almost all of that benefit shows up in what I would say is the on-premise KPI. And so over time though, how you should think about that is it will eventually show up in Azure consumed revenue growth. This is a benefit that's fundamentally about high value and flexibility and meeting customers where they are so that they can make the determination of when to make that choice. And so it tends to be why I keep focusing people back on the all-up KPI because it's the best representation of really customer commitment and usage of our architected-from-the-beginning hybrid cloud. But to your specific question, it shows up today in the on-prem number, it's where you could see most of the strength of that value. And over time, as it gets used and consumed, it will show up more in the Azure ACR number.
Our next question comes from the line of Karl Keirstead from Deutsche Bank.
Amy, I'd like to ask you about the big revenue beat in the Intelligent Cloud segment that drove much of the upside and in particular the server product KPI that was just addressed, up 9%. I'm just wondering if you could frame how material the contribution of the version 2008 upgrades were. And assuming that that lift can continue throughout calendar 2019, could it be enough to keep that on-prem KPI, as you described it, flat or even up slightly in the coming 2 quarters despite the tougher comps?
Thanks, Karl. In -- when I think about the on-prem number, I really divide it into things that have durable value and things that I think of as more onetime. When I think about the durable trends that I expect to see, it's been the hybrid value prop that we really just talked about on Mark's last question and then the premium mix. Those 2, we have seen and continue to see. I do think we saw some benefit of end of support, but I would not say it was the primary benefit this quarter. The primary benefit was the 2 things I just talked about. In the support, obviously we've got SQL in July and then Windows in January. And so I do think we saw some impact particularly in SQL, and I do expect we'll see some of that in Q4. But the Q4 comparable for on-prem is very big. And so even with some of that benefit of the durable trends plus, I think, a more temporal one of end of support, I do expect to see a deceleration in that number in Q4.
Our next question comes from the line of Jennifer Lowe from UBS.
Great. I wanted to turn to the Office 365 Commercial business a bit, and that's been a consistent, very strong performer for you all and was again this quarter. But maybe just sort of 2 related questions there. First, if I heard you right, Satya, I think you said there was 180 million users now on Office 365 Commercial, which seems like you're hitting a lot of the customers that you thought might be there a couple of years ago. So I was just curious to get your view on how far along you are in that adoption cycle and if there's still a lot more opportunity in terms of seat expansion in the upcoming year.
And then related, Amy, you mentioned E3 and E5 were both pretty big contributors on the ASP front in the quarter. Are we starting to see a shifting where E5 is sort of increasing in relevance and E3 is played out a bit? Or is this sort of equally balanced? I'm just curious to get sort of the mixing there as well.
Sure. In terms of overall reach of Office 365, we continue to see significant opportunity going forward on multiple dimensions. So for example, we never participated as much in, I would call it, nondeveloped market medium and small businesses with all of the sophisticated workloads. So now that -- with the SaaS approach, you can reach a much broader base of business customers all over the world, is one opportunity.
The second opportunity is if you look at Teams as an example, we are now reaching a lot of first-line workers. So this is whether it's in health care, whether it's in manufacturing, whether it's in retail, just not knowledge workers but where you now have messaging solutions as well as business process workflows integrated. So it's that combination of things where you're going from knowledge workers to first-line, going -- and the ability to reach all sizes of businesses is what's going to continue to help us, I think, have overall feet growth or socket growth. And then of course, there is the other dimension, which is the levels of Office 365 all the way to E5 with significant value.
And the one thing I would mention is having compliance security that spans all of these tools is also proving out to be a very big architectural advantage and a customer value proposition because I think as customers look to use more SaaS applications, they don't want an exponential increase in their security exposure or more compliance burden. And so therefore, Office 365's approach resonates even there.
And Jen, maybe a little to your question, which is fundamentally about seat growth and ARPU as the drivers of that all-up Office 365 Commercial growth number. This quarter and a little bit last, I actually think some of the ARPU increase has been masked by some of the trends in seat growth. What I mean by that is that 27% seat growth is starting to include some lower ARPU seats that Satya just mentioned, whether that's in academic, in edu, in frontline workers. And that's really important for us to keep having that seat growth even if it's not at the same ARPU level, those are not seats that we ever could reach before at any level, and that's absolutely a new opportunity for us. But it does tend to mask a little some of the ARPU improvement that we've seen. It's still E3 and E5. There's opportunity on both, although we are starting to see the impact of E5 in that ARPU number.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Murphy from JPMorgan.
Satya, we've seen many indications of Azure winning a greater share of enterprise workloads recently. Do you think that you have found the right formula now for Azure to win the majority of workloads in the enterprise IT world? And then Amy, just given the trajectory and the long-term commitments that you mentioned there, do you see a path for Azure to surpass Office 365 Commercial and thus become the largest revenue stream for Microsoft, say, in the next couple, a few years?
Sure. I'll start, Mark. And I mean, having grown up essentially in our infrastructure business in Microsoft, I would say that compared to even the previous eras where we did well in the client/server era in the face of tough competition and in this era again in the face of a different set of competitors, we are doing well. And we are doing well, much better than we did in the previous era because we are seeing these Tier 1 workloads, which we never saw in the past. If you think about it, in the client/server era, we never participated in the core of the digital infrastructure of financial services or in health care or in retail or in manufacturing. And absolutely, when we think about the digital transformational design wins, deployment, consumption, it's kind of like what we would have done with some ISVs of the past, how we worked perhaps with SAP in the '90s when we were coming out with SQL Server and they were coming out with R/3, is what we are now doing with many, many, many businesses as they build out their digital businesses. So that sort of perhaps characterizes for you what's new in terms of Microsoft's own growth in this space.
And the way that would show up, Mark, is a little bit, I think, where you were leading with the question you asked, which is when we think about the Microsoft commercial cloud at $9.6 billion and growing over 40%, how do you see that evolving? And really, the question is we have quite a bit of per-seat or per-user type businesses. But what Satya just talked about is really about the Azure concept of participating both in an expansionary total addressable market, which I think people have talked about for a long time. But what was different about what Satya just said is our ability frankly to have higher share in the next era than we had in the last era. And so if you look about then our ability to grow and will Azure be larger over any period of time than our per-seat or per-user businesses, it certainly could be. But I don't want that to really diminish the fact that there's a lot of room for us in our per-seat businesses, particularly in business applications across LinkedIn, the Power Platform work we're doing. Satya mentioned security, identity, compliance. There is a lot of room for us to continue to add value and growth in that area as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross MacMillan from RBC Capital Markets.
My congratulations as well. We continue to see this really nice progression in the commercial cloud gross margin, and you called out the Azure gross margin improvements. And within that, there's some moving pieces. I think you've got better utilization and efficiency of core Azure. You've got premium services, and then you've got this maybe counter-prevailing force of the different growth in consumption versus user base.
Two questions on this, one for Satya. On the premium services, I'm just curious as to which 1 or 2 or 3 are you seeing maybe break out and become the largest or grow the fastest, which are most meaningful at this point? And then second, for Amy, as we think about this trend, are you convinced that we'll continue to see, not just for fiscal Q4 but into fiscal '20 and beyond, consistent progression and growth in the overall commercial cloud gross margin?
Sure. I mean on the first question, Ross, as far as premium services, just even on the application infrastructure side, for example, in compute, there is increasing need for things like IoT services. Essentially, there is a new business application-like set of services that are getting developed to help people manage their complex IoT application development. IoT Central is a good example of that. When you have many, many connected devices, you need a control plane for many of those devices so that you can tame the complexity of your app deployments, security management. That's one example.
The other one is, of course, data. And the sophistication of the data estate is growing exponentially both in terms of the needs of the databases required, the processing that is required close to data. So that's another place where something like Cosmos DB, which is very unique in its capability in the marketplace, is definitely another service that's got real traction. Even data warehousing, the scale at which -- this is another market, which we never participated in, in the past whereas now we have one of the most competitive products when it comes to benchmarking around data warehousing. So those are all things that I would say are premium services that's just talking about new applications being built on Azure, not counting all of the SaaS applications about that.
And to your overall commercial cloud gross margin question, you're right that the fundamental driver is, when I look forward into the next year, I expect each service, just like it did this year, to really see gross margin improvement, whether that service is LinkedIn or Dynamics or Office 365, Azure per user or Azure IaaS and PaaS. But what you'll see is a revenue mix shift, right, that will offset that to Azure IaaS and PaaS. And so what that generally will do will be a headwind to continued gross amount of the improvement, even though you'll see individual improvement across all of the GM services. And you'll continue to see Azure increase as a percentage of the total revenue.
Our next question comes from the line of Brad Zelnick from Crédit Suisse.
And congrats on the strong outperformance. I want to follow up on Karl's question but more generally on database products. With the end of support coming for SQL Server 2008 in July, Satya, can you tell us how that's sparking conversations with customers about database offerings on Azure and moving workloads to the cloud? And Amy, can you perhaps help us contextualize the opportunity to move traditional database workloads onto Azure and what the expansion economics look like?
Yes. A couple of things, Brad. One is overall, the need to get on the latest and greatest database technology just because of what is the increasing need for compute and data at the edge is what's driving a lot of the conversations on SQL Server. Interestingly enough, we have a lot of requirements around edge devices even so that you can have databases with compute, so that you can really have what is needed at the edge. That's sort of one conversation.
The other one is in terms of the cloud migration, there is a variety of different use cases. We see people who are using SQL DB, which is essentially a PaaS service with the complete compatibility of SQL Server. They want managed services around SQL Server, which we have. And so both of those are all happening in parallel. A good example of this is, in fact, even the rewrite of -- complete revamp, I would say, of Dynamics. Dynamics 365 and its architecture, at least in my eyes, is a thing of beauty because it's completely been rewritten for the new database technology, whether it is in the database side or on the data warehouse side, again uses a whole bunch of micro services and functions so that you can do AI close to data. That type of architectural approach is what we see is possible now for every SaaS application when they're out there as well because we think about the number of SaaS -- number of business applications that were built on SQL Server, I feel that, that's an architecture that can support both what they want to do on the edge but as well as in the cloud.
And on the contextualizing the opportunity, the reason I said it's not the primary driver is because the vast, vast majority of our server business is annuity-based. And so when it's annuity-based, there's really no opportunity to see it as upside in Q4 from an end-of-support frame. For the smaller portion of our business, it's still not annuity per transactional. It does provide, as I talked about earlier, some opportunity, but it's not that large just because the nature of the commitment of our customers now is far more of the annuity type.
Our next question comes from the line of Raimo Lenschow from Barclays.
Can you talk a little on the Windows OEM side? You mentioned that the chipset situation is kind of easing a little bit. Are we kind of fully done there in terms of what do you see there from the Intel side? And did that create some pent-up demand for the coming quarters as people are thinking about moving over to Windows 10 with the end-of-life coming up?
Thanks, Raimo. I think we actually, in Q3, as I said, met sort of the unfulfilled Q2 demand and Q3. So I don't think of it as a pent-up situation heading into Q4, and our guide certainly does not indicate that, that is what we believe will happen. What I would say is I think there's -- we feel good about the supply in the commercial segment and the premium consumer segment, which is where the vast majority of our revenue is in OEM. And so I think in those segments, we feel fine for Q4.
Thanks, Raimo. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. Thank you for joining us today, and we look forward to speaking with all of you soon.
Thank you.
Thank you all.
This concludes today's conference, and you may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.