I guess, first question, I was hoping you could provide a little more granularity on Huawei. You talked about the ability to sell a subset of products. Can you walk through, I guess, where you're allowed, where you're not. They are, I believe, a 13% customer at least last quarter fiscal year. What kind of impact do you expect as we proceed in the coming quarters across both DRAM and NAND?
So as I said in my prepared remarks, after the Huawei was placed on entity list, we began a review of our products against the export administration regulations. And through that analysis, we determined that certain of our products, a subset of our products that we were previously shipping to Huawei, could continue to ship because it is lawful, it is compliant to those export regulations.
And of course, it had impact, as Dave noted; in our FQ3, it had an impact because we could not ship at that time any product to them, of nearly $200 million. And for FQ4, there would be impact to our revenue. What I would say is that our revenue with Huawei in FQ4 would be less than what had otherwise would have been if Huawei was not on the entity listing.
And of course, as we look ahead beyond FQ4, if Huawei continues to be on the entity list, then in fiscal year '20 as well, we would have an impact compared to what our revenue with Huawei would have been if they were not on the entity listing. Of course, we are a supplier to all customers and all end markets across the globe, and we will -- and our presence with several of those other customers is growing in terms of our penetration there, in terms of our share there. And we will continue to work on addressing those, but we would not be able to make up in fiscal year '20 if this were to continue the full shortfall. And we -- although we plan to make up part of it through other parts of the business.
That's very helpful. And if I could just follow-up...
And it affects both our DRAM as well as the NAND side of the business.
Great. And if I could follow-up on CapEx. You talked about a meaningful cut. I guess, is meaningful meaning single-type territory? And as part of that, is it more focused on DRAM? NAND? Both? How should we think about the implications there?
So with respect to CapEx, we have said meaningful reduction in CapEx from the fiscal year 2019 levels, and we'll provide more details in the next call as we finalize our plans. Of course, our goal is to have our long-term considerations in mind with respect to technology and product cost capability, but most importantly to have our supply bit growth aligned with our expectations of demand bit growth.
And when we look at supply bit growth, of course, we keep in mind the inventory that we are carrying from fiscal year '19 into fiscal year '20 for both DRAM as well as NAND, which will help us supply some of the demand requirement in fiscal year '20 and enable us to reduce our CapEx requirements in fiscal year '20. And our CapEx management, of course, applies to both NAND as well as DRAM.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Newman of Bernstein.
The first question really following on Huawei. Can you give a little bit more quantification on how much the 13-or-so percent revenue you expect you will be able to continue to export to Huawei? And it is -- can you give us some guidance also for your bit growth for this next quarter? I don't think you have mentioned that yet on the earnings -- on the guidance. If you can mention about your expectation for bit growth for the following quarter. And I have a follow-up question.
So with respect to Huawei, as I said before, our revenue expectation in fiscal Q4 is less than what it would have been without Huawei being on the entity list. Beyond that, we don't really get into specifics in terms of revenue as such on a customer-by-customer basis. Of course, our revenue expectation that Huawei is baked into the guidance -- revenue guidance that Dave provided for FQ4 of $4.5 billion, plus or minus $200 million.
And your second question with respect to...
So on DRAM bit growth, we said it would be up meaningfully in the fourth quarter. NAND will be more modest given the environment.
Okay. My follow-up question is really taking a step back and looking at the industry. Clearly, it's been a quite challenging year this year with the oversupply. But just looking forward to 2020 with the pretty severe cuts you guys are making on utilization, the CapEx, and we're hearing similar cuts from some of your competitors in Asia, I'm just curious what you think for next year. I guess it very much depends on the economic outlook, which is a little bit unpredictable at the moment. But looking forward to 2020, do you not think that there could be a danger of potential undersupply at some point next year? I'm just curious how you're thinking about that because, to me, at this level of utilization and CapEx, it seems like, inevitably, there will be a period of undersupply coming, just a matter of time.
So as you said, the industry is in oversupply right now, both in DRAM as well as in NAND. And while demand is increasing in the second half, both for NAND and DRAM, the oversupply situation does persist. And we have talked about it in DRAM, a challenging pricing environment. And therefore, it's important that CapEx cuts are made as well as supply bit growth is managed to bring the supply bit growth in line with the demand growth as well as over time to bring inventories in line with expectations as well. So we are not providing a fiscal year '20 guidance at this point, but all of the actions that we are taking here are really targeted to restore the industry demand and supply balance over the course of next few quarters.
Our next question comes from the line of John Pitzer of Crédit Suisse.
Sanjay, congratulations on the solid execution given the industry conditions. Just going back to the CapEx questions. I would argue, Sanjay, that one of the biggest strategic initiatives you've had has been to try to close a cost gap with your peers. And clearly, CapEx is a pretty important tool in which to do that. You guys are sort of bucking the trend this fiscal year with CapEx actually up slightly versus peers that have actually taken it down. I'm just kind of curious. Help us to get some comfort level that despite the cuts you're talking about for the fiscal year '20, you're still very much on plan relative to closing those cost gaps with your peers.
So certainly, as you noted, we have made tremendous improvement in our cost position and with respect to our peers, and that reflects in our financial performance. As was noted in the prepared remarks, our margin improvement -- relative margin improvement from previous times, has really improved by 2,000 basis points, and that's because of our execution on the cost front as well as on the execution on the high-value solutions front. And of course, we have more room to go with respect to cost competitiveness as well as strengthening our high-value solutions portfolio.
So we are extremely focused on this. And as we look at driving our future opportunities, we -- of course, when we make our CapEx decisions, we make them based on cost competitiveness of our supply in the future and, of course, keeping in mind our free cash flow considerations. And most important is that our total supply available to us coming from our inventory and coming from our supply bit growth, should be matching with our demand expectations going forward over the course of next few quarters and to continue to improve our inventory position.
But on the cost side, we feel very good about the 1Y and 1Z progress on DRAM as well as we feel good about our 96-layer. And overall, even with the CapEx reductions that we are talking about, we'll be in a good position with respect to costs, both in DRAM and NAND next year.
Of course, we have talked about in NAND, our first-generation replacement gate node will be a small node in the sense that it will be deployed across a small set of products. And we will not have any significant cost benefit from that first-generation replacement gate node, but the second generation replacement gate node will give us a meaningful cost benefit compared to the last generations of floating gate node. So we absolutely are on top of the game in terms of managing to our cost objectives.
I'd just add that Sanjay already mentioned this drive to high value solutions, another way we can improve our gross margins, but also we're -- the node transitions isn't the only way we affect the cost of the product. And so one example is, for example, the back end, we're very acutely focused on the back-end. We are bringing some of that activity that we're doing that was being outsourced internally. We think we can improve our cost structure in that regard, too. So there are many ways we can drive the cost to improve it.
And one thing I would just add is in terms of our overall CapEx that you mentioned, of course, as you know, that in fiscal year '19, we had a meaningful part of our CapEx, around $2 billion that was actually tied to facilities, cleanroom expansions to enable technology transitions. And this facility spend may not be the same from one manufacturer to the other manufacturer. But for us, that was a meaningful part to again, as noted in our remarks before, to prepare us for technology transitions and not targeting any of that cleanroom space for any meaningful capacity, but really for technology transition.
And then, David, just on inventory, it's clearly a key metric that investors are looking at. I'm kind of curious as how we should think about inventory levels exiting the fiscal fourth quarter. And as you answer the question, can you -- clearly, the inventory is somewhat a reflection of where we are in the cycle, but you've got sort of the added burden of wanting to build some NAND inventory as you make this transition to replacement gate. So how do we -- how would inventories look if you sort of normalize for that?
And then, lastly, as part of the question, I apologize, utilization coming down, CapEx coming down is a good way of controlling inventory, so is the potential for write-downs. Can you just talk about how you're thinking about the value of the inventory in this sort of environment?
A 3-part question huh, John? Okay. So yes, the inventories obviously are elevated right now. As you point out, one of the big drivers of our increased inventory level is in NAND, and that is kind of by design for us. We are trying to build up some inventory going into 2020 -- fiscal 2020 for us because we are going to make this transition to replacement gate. Replacement gate doesn't drive very much bit growth for us in the first node in replacement gate, and so we'll need to draw on our inventory in order to meet demand. And that's a -- I don't know the exact number, but that's a decent chunk of the overage in terms of days.
The other aspect of the elevated level of inventory is in DRAM. That was a little bit more a function of a pretty good bit growth in the first couple of quarters of the calendar year of 2019. And of course, we had customers working down their inventories. And so inventory was building up in our balance sheet.
We do expect now that we're in a place -- Sanjay mentioned that we're seeing inventories get to be in a good place in the cloud space, in the graphics' space, in the PC space. And so we would expect to start to see inventories start to come down now. We think we'll be in a relatively good spot by the end of the calendar year, may not be at "optimal levels" but certainly in a healthier place. And then, quickly after that, I would expect DRAM to be in a good place.
From a write-down perspective, we did write-down about $40 million of inventory this quarter specific to Huawei. We have finished goods inventory with Huawei that does not look like that's going to get sold, so we did reserve that. Outside of that, from a kind of an obsolescence perspective, we don't see really any risk with the inventory we're carrying. We think it's very good inventory. It's got a good cost position, very good demand with that inventory, so unlikely to have any issue as it relates to obsolescence.
The other, of course, area you have to concern yourself with is the -- any sort of lower cost to market issue with the inventory. And I think you can kind of guess by the quality of our gross margins that we're not really in danger of having any write-down associated with lower costs to market. So outside of these kind of one-off issues that we deal with from time to time, like we did with Huawei this quarter, I don't really see a big issue with inventory in terms of write-downs or reserves.
So before we get into the next question, I just want to make a small correction. In the prepared comments, I mentioned that QLC shipment were up approximately 75%. I meant to say that QLC bit shipments were up 75% quarter-over-quarter. So I just wanted to make that correction. And now, I think we can move on to the next question.
Our next question comes from the line of Ambrish Srivastava of BMO Capital.
Sanjay, good to see the discipline here on the CapEx and also with Dave's focus on free cash flow. I was just a little confused and I want to make sure I understood this. If we go -- and I appreciate that you don't want to talk about any specific customer, but if we go back to the reported last 2 quarters and if you triangulate that, if you exclude Huawei, that would mean that bit shipments would be at best up single digit. So the question is, in your CapEx thinking for fiscal '20, how are you handicapping the Huawei impact? Are you expecting this to continue to be on that list, and hence, your CapEx -- lower CapEx includes a certain amount of capacity being taken off-line because of that? What's the right way to think about it? And then I had a quick follow-up.
So I think we'll be able to provide you more details related to fiscal year '20 CapEx, et cetera, in our next earnings call. I will just point out that there is obviously considerable uncertainty here. As you can all see from the rather fluid situation with respect to Huawei as well as with respect to U.S., China trade matters. And of course, we are just staying focused on optimizing what we can control and really remaining nimble in our actions. You're seeing that how, over the course of last 1 year, we have, for fiscal year '19, managed our CapEx down from $10.5 billion, plus, minus 5%, to $9 billion now. So we continue to stay vigilant, and we are making decisive actions with respect to meaningful CapEx reductions in fiscal year '20.
With respect to the further details, we will be in a better position to provide you information at the next earnings call.
Okay. And then, just a quick follow-up, and it's not a multipart day for you, what's the AR or DSO target that we should be thinking about as we go through the next couple of quarters?
Yes. So it got up there and we did kind of work it down this quarter. I think we got it down to about 62 days. I would say, ideally, it should be in the 50s. There was a little bit of a mix challenge this quarter that kind of drove it up a bit and there is a couple of customers that have extended terms and they kind of hit us at that point. But ideally, we'd like to be somewhere in the mid-50s.
Our next question comes from Chris Danely of Citi.
You said you've mitigated I think 90% of the tariff so far. Now we're looking at another $300 billion in tariffs. Can you estimate the approximate impact to your business if that goes through?
I would say that as we -- of course, we don't know for sure what the list looks like. We have a general sense. Based on what we've seen, there's minimal impact from the incremental list. Most of what affects us was contemplated in the first 2, 1A, 1B, and then the second list.
Got it. And then for my follow-up. Sanjay talked about 5G being a big driver. With the Huawei issue, is that impacting the development of 5G? Have you seen any change in -- like the ongoing development of the standards out there?
So I think it is too soon to tell. And keep in mind that in certain countries, 5G has already started to be deployed such as Korea. And there are, of course, leading suppliers other than Huawei as well for 5G. So it remains to be seen how this deployment occurs over the course of next few quarters in particular here.
But there is no doubt that 5G will bring about greater applications for memory and storage, not only in smartphones but also in machine-to-machine on the IoT front. And all of this will drive greater demand for memory and storage. And we remain absolutely well-prepared, of course, in a flexible fashion to meet the growing demand requirements for the business that 5G we think will provide over the course of next many years. But near term, in terms of exactly what happens with respect to Huawei aspects, I think, really, it is too soon to tell.
Our next question comes from Harlan Sur of JPMorgan.
In DRAM, given the transition to 1Y and early 1Z move, can you guys just help us understand, qualitatively, your cost reduction profile as you move to the second half of this calendar year? Maybe compare that versus the cost downs in the first half of this year.
With respect to the cost declines, of course, we are continuing to execute well with respect to our node transitions as well as continuing to drive cost declines, the 1Y and 1Z nodes that you talked about. And we are on plan in terms of ramping up these nodes as well.
And as I said before, we don't break out the cost reductions on first half versus second half. Of course, our expectations of cost reductions are baked into for FQ4, the gross margin guidance as well as, of course, that takes into account our price decline assumptions as well for FQ4. So all of that is really baked into it. We don't break it down. But keep in mind that as the new technology nodes advance, the cost reduction coming from new technology nodes is less and less compared to the prior nodes just because, as we have explained several times before, they naturally give you -- given the challenges of scaling, less [pathway] for bit growth capability and less cost reduction capability.
Yes. And then back in April, the team announced its 9300 series NVMe. This is your new cloud and enterprise SSD family. I think you guys have had solid momentum in cloud and enterprise with your SATA family, and that's helped to sustain a better margin profile for the NAND business. So what's the design win momentum been like on the 9300 series? And when do you anticipate your cloud customers to start ramping these new NVMe products?
So as we have discussed in the past that we would be introducing, over the course of our fiscal year 2019, actually during calendar year 2019, our NVMe products. And we started that first with consumer NVMe and later with our OEM NVMe that we talked about today and now also for cloud and enterprise applications NVMe drive. And these will take some period of time over the course of next few months in terms of getting qualified by customers, in terms of gaining traction with customers. And that's why we had mentioned that 2019 will basically be a year of transition for us from SATA to NVMe.
I just want to remind you that a couple of years ago, Micron did not actually have investments in NVMe product development. We did very well and are continuing to do very well in SATA, as you noted. And we began to significantly increase our investments in NVMe product development a couple of years ago, and it takes a while to have these products in the marketplace. So in 2020, as our NVMe solutions get adopted by our customers and as we ramp those into production, we do expect to be gaining share with NVMe all throughout the 2020 time frame.
Our next question comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri of UBS.
that's been asked a couple of times, and I'm just trying to figure out how lower CapEx -- you're going to cut CapEx by a couple of billion and you're certainly cutting wafer starts quite a bit. How that doesn't ultimately have some negative impact on your costs? I think you've been costing down in DRAM maybe low- to mid-teens, and the expectation was that you'd be down somewhere -- that 2020 would be kind of another good year for DRAM cost downs, and you've been down kind of like mid-20s in NAND. So -- yet, it sounds like you're saying that it is not having much of an effect on your costs, so I'm just trying to fit those 2 things.
No, I'm not saying that will not have effect on cost. What I'm saying is that we will be in good position with cost because our technologies -- underlying technologies give us good cost reduction capabilities from one node to the next node.
Overall, from a cost point of view, we'll be in good position. And for NAND, I'll just remind you that our CMOS under the Array technology gives us the smallest die size in the industry, and that has meaningful implications with respect to the cost competitiveness that we have.
So overall, we feel good about the technology and the production mix that we will be driving through the remainder of fiscal year '19 as well as through fiscal year 2020 in terms of meeting our demand expectations as well as remaining cost competitive.
And then, I guess, just related to that, maybe Dave, can you maybe break down CapEx, sort of how much is building versus equipment? It sounds like there's roughly $2 billion that was buildings this year in fiscal '19. Is the cut next year going to be almost all in infrastructure so that WFE is kind of flat to down a smidge year-over-year. Is that kind of how to think about it?
So getting back to the FY '19, just to be clear, what Sanjay said was about $2 billion was kind of construction-related spend. The rest is front-end and back-end. So there is some -- and some miscellaneous capital spend for the R&D group and so forth. So there's more to it than even that.
I'll be honest with you, we have not kind of completely finalized CapEx budget for next year. We have a pretty good sense of directionally where it's going, but all the pieces specifically, we're not quite there yet. And so what we'd like to do is wait and give you more granularity around that in the next quarter's call. But I would anticipate that both areas would have some reduction to them.
And our next question comes from Blayne Curtis of Barclays.
I just want to follow up on the Huawei point, just want to make sure I understood what you're saying. Are you able to ship because the IP resides in another country? Just trying to understand how exactly are you able to continue to ship?
And then just kind of curious, as you look out, I'm sure there's going to be some components that go into these phones from other vendors that don't have an ability to ship. So I'm kind of just curious to your thoughts on kind of the downstream impact and whether you've encapsulated all that?
So with respect to what we are able to ship to Huawei, as I said before that what we are able to ship is what is not under the export administration regulations, and that's what we are able to ship. And actually, export administration regulations have various complex aspects and considerations, several criteria that you have to go through.
If you're interested in that, you can certainly go to the BIS site and look for those. And we assess our products versus those. And these considerations are not just limited to any 1 or 2 aspects such as what you mentioned. I mean they have several aspects. And we assess our products that we can ship to Huawei versus those and have made determination of shipments. And as we've said, we began those shipments in last 2 weeks.
And with respect to your question around other components, et cetera, of course, this is a company-by-company decision, and each company has to evaluate its own situation. And obviously, Huawei has to look at its own supply chain. So with respect to the products that we can ship to them, we work closely with them to understand what is their latest demand on those products, and that is what is baked into our FQ4 guidance.
What I would like to point out here is that at the end of the day, since you asked a question about mobile phones, the smartphone demand overall from consumers' point of view is really going to be the same. I mean consumers are going to be buying the phones that they're going to buy based on the features, the new models. All of that will be bought. There may be some share shift that may be occurring between the various suppliers of smartphones. And as you know, we are well-engaged with customers across the smartphone ecosystem as a supplier to them. Of course, we have -- Huawei was our #1 customer. We continue to engage with other customers as well. And we will -- we have had growing presence with those other customers and we'll continue to look for opportunities to best optimize our business while always, of course, continuing to comply with U.S. laws and regulations. And for that matter, we always comply with laws and regulations in all countries that we operate in.
And then I just want to ask you on the cloud and data center, obviously an important segment and you did have some encouraging comments. Just kind of curious on that pace of recovery maybe versus what you had thought a quarter ago, just kind of the health of the channel and the pace of recovery there.
Pace of recovery?
In cloud and data center.
Oh, for cloud and data center. I mean, as we said, I think cloud customers as well as several other customers had operated with high levels of inventory in the -- starting late last year and through the course of first half of this year, those inventory levels have been largely worked to normal levels, except for in enterprise, as we noted in our prepared remarks. And we look forward to robust growth in fiscal fourth quarter in the area of cloud. And we are, of course, continuing to broaden our product portfolio as well with solutions such as NVMe solutions, and that will bring us bigger opportunities in the future as well.
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day. You may disconnect your lines at this time.