Maybe a couple of parts on the revenue performance in the quarter. Ruth, you'd called out potential volatility on the Q4 earnings call. Wanted to understand a little bit about what you were calling out in Q4 and how that might have manifested itself in Q1 on the product side of the equation, so we could just better understand how much of it was isolated to Q1 or it might be a headwind as we move through the year. And as you look at the individual performance of the ad divisions inside Sites, desktop, mobile search, YouTube, it seems like you were still calling out strength in mobile search and YouTube. So could it be desktop search where we actually saw some weakness in the quarter?
Sure. Thanks, Eric. So I tried to step back and start at the highest level. Obviously, on a reported GAAP basis, revenue growth in Q1 reflects the FX headwind that we talked about in contrast to the tailwind last year. And as you know well, we don't report Sites revenues on a fixed FX basis, but the delta between fixed and floating growth rates at the Alphabet level is a good proxy for the effect on Sites revenue. Beyond that, I tried to draw out that the year-on-year growth rate in part reflects our strong 2018. And then more to your question, as we indicated last quarter, the other item is the timing of product changes in ads can impact year-on-year growth rates. And we make changes with a focus on the best interest of users and advertisers.
Over the long term, we do not manage by quarter, so we are introducing enhancements only after product testing. And that was -- it's sort of the overarching color that I was trying to give you. And in terms of desktop, it was a modest contributor to revenue growth. It does remain an important form factor for certain more complex tasks such as planning vacations or assessing insurance options. And as we've talked about on prior calls, we continue to see the ongoing importance of desktop for many users and many tasks, notwithstanding the growing utility of mobile. So I led with the items that are really driving the growth, but that was a bit more color on desktop for you.
And our next question comes from Doug Anmuth of JPMorgan.
So 2 questions. Just following up on Eric's on the revenue growth. Ruth, can you just give us a little bit more detail on the paid click growth, the decel that we saw to 39% from the 50s and 60s last year. So that's just a comp issue or something more specific? And then just on the spending side, wanted to understand a little more just how you're thinking about spending relative to 3 months ago. I know you talked about both CapEx moderating and also headcount moderating 3 months ago. Just curious at least if headcount is still in that camp for your thinking, just given that it seems like there's a pretty big ramp expected under the new Cloud CEO.
Okay. So starting with clicks and CPCs. As we've discussed on prior calls, the biggest driver affecting both CPCs and click trends is YouTube engagement ads with YouTube clicks representing the vast majority of total clicks. And so while YouTube clicks continued to grow at a substantial pace in the first quarter, the rate of YouTube click growth decelerated versus what was a strong Q1 last year, reflecting changes that we made in early 2018, which we believe are overall additive to the user and advertiser experience.
And then in terms of your 2 spending -- the investment questions. In terms of headcount, first, we do continue to expect the growth rate to moderate slightly in 2019 from the year-on-year growth in 2018. And as I indicated in opening comments, we are continuing to invest in technical talent for priority areas like Cloud, search and ML. And so Cloud has been and continues to be the primary area of headcount growth and as Thomas indicated as well and I think Sundar did as well.
In terms of CapEx, just to fill out the last part, I think, of your question, relative to my comments last quarter that we expect the full year 2019 growth rate for CapEx to moderate quite significantly versus the year-on-year growth in 2018, there's no change in our expectation for the year on that point either. The first quarter last year obviously included a sizable real estate acquisition in New York. But overall, we continue to invest meaningfully in our technical infrastructure given our outlook for compute requirements to support long-term growth. Technical infrastructure is the biggest driver of CapEx growth, but we do also continue to invest in office facilities. In fact, as we announced in the first quarter, we expect CapEx of over $13 billion in 2019 just in the U.S. in data center construction and offices with major expansions in 14 states. And more generally, while we're investing aggressively to support our outlook for compute requirements, we're also very focused on improving efficiency with our technical infrastructure. And you can see that through our innovations in things like custom server hardware and TPUs, which can be more cost effective especially for machine learning workloads.
And our question comes from Heather Bellini of Goldman Sachs.
Sundar, I had a question about Cloud. You guys are obviously talking more and more about it. But when do you think you're going to be in a position to share revenue figures or even growth rates similar to what the others have been sharing for quite some time? And then, I guess, a couple follow-ups to that are what would you say the biggest competitive differentiators are of GCP. And what also -- what changes has Thomas implemented for 2019? What are any of the big changes he's focused on that maybe are different than what you were doing before?
Thanks, Heather. Good question. Overall, I would say I think you saw it -- saw the momentum coming out of Next. And I would say at a high level, the key differentiators, which we are focused and which we hear from customers too, the 5 key things are security and reliability, being really open about hybrid multi-cloud customers don't want to be locked into any 1 cloud provider. We want to be a platform for open source, and so we're really working well there in enabling options, AI, ML as a capability. And finally, as customers think about digital transformations, we bring all of Google's advances to bear to help them through the journey.
I think I would say, Thomas is really building upon a strong foundation, but we're really accelerating and scaling up go to market both internally and through our channel partners has been a huge focus. I'm incredibly excited that we just announced a couple of weeks ago that [Robbins Linness] joined us to head go-to-market. And just along with Thomas, both of them bring close to 3 decades of serving enterprise customers. And so that reflects the commitment we have. I think we are building a strong business across all our verticals, and we definitely are seeing strong momentum and look forward to being able to share more at the appropriate time.
And our next question comes from Anthony DiClemente of Evercore.
I have 2, 1 for Ruth, 1 for Sundar. We noticed that larger than expected slowdown in the properties TAC in the quarter, that includes cost of mobile search, while the other cost of revenues, which includes YouTube content costs, seem to maintain that expected growth rate despite what you said about more moderate turns in Hardware. So just wondering if that's a wise way to infer anything about the relative performance of mobile search revenue versus YouTube from those cost lines in the quarter. And then on Waymo, maybe for Sundar. We're hearing more and more about collaborations between ride-sharing networks and AV providers. So the idea of mixed fleets or part human, part AV as a means of potential deployment of AV technology, so can you just comment if that mixed fleet approach would be something that you think Waymo would consider versus its own full ride service network?
So in terms of the Sites TAC rate, a couple of things. We've discussed this previous -- on previous calls. We have expected the year-on-year growth in the TAC rate would begin to slow starting in the second quarter last year. And you saw that through the balance of 2018. And this quarter, the constant TAC rate versus last year reflects ongoing growth in mobile, but it also benefited from growth in YouTube, where the associated content and costs are included in other cost of sales. And so that's the most important thing to point to. The other is --we've previously discussed is TAC as a percentage of revenues is also affected by a number of other factors such as changes in product mix, device mix, partner mix, et cetera. So I'd really point you to the first point there.
And then as it relates to Waymo, I guess a couple of things. We continue to be most focused on the ride-sharing business here. We're pleased with the expansion in the number of Waymo riders that we've added since the last quarter. But as we've talked about on prior calls, we do continue to pursue a number of other opportunities, long-haul trucking, we've talked about, logistics, deliveries, personal use vehicles, last mile solutions for cities and then probably more to your question, licensing our technology. And we did announce in March that we're making one of our 3D LiDAR sensors available to companies outside of the self-driving car service beginning with robotics and physical security, in other words, in -- for warehouse use or for farming. And our view is that, that can provide further operating leverage to our business. So we're actually looking at it in a number of different ways, but the primary focus continues to be on developing the ride-hailing business.
And your next question comes from Stephen Ju of Crédit Suisse.
So Sundar, I wanted to follow up on your Stadia commentary. How are your conversations with some of the larger PC and console publishers going right now? You obviously offered them additional distribution outlet with billions of users, which is something that they probably didn't have before. But what is the pushback that you might be getting from publishers, if any?
I think their genuinely -- the main thing we see, genuine excitement because I think they see the opportunity for a shift, a point of inflection, but they realize the technical challenge of pulling something like this off, and so -- but once they get their hands on with the technology and then they see the experience, I think, it really wins people over. And so we are having conversations across the board, and I think people are definitely engaging in a very committed way, and they're investing in it. And so it's up to us to bring it all together and have a [coupling] service later this year, and that's what the team is, heads down, working on. But I think not pushback per se, but they want to see our commitment, which is what we demonstrate. And they are working hard to make the investments on their side. And so it's a big joint effort, and it's working well.
And our next question comes from Brian Nowak of Morgan Stanley.
I have 2. The first one, let's go back to the product changes. Ruth, any more color on sort of which products or regions are most impacted by these changes? And just so we can understand a little bit, can you just help us with the key user experience you're trying to solve for and sort of the message to your advertisers who may be spending -- who may be growing their spend less now, but why that's going to be positive for the long term? And then, Sundar, just go to your comments about YouTube. You mentioned more potential changes coming on YouTube in the next couple of weeks. Can you just talk to us about that a little bit?
Maybe I'll start with the YouTube comments. I talked about, in the area of content responsibility, we are definitely focused on making sure we are constantly improving how we are handling both in terms of reducing the content that shouldn't be there on the platform and then more importantly, making sure, when we recommend content, that we are recommending high-quality content as well as reducing harmful content or low-quality content being recommended. I think we had a set of launch, which we have rolled out, but I think there are more launches coming, which will constantly improve what you see in YouTube and continues to be the most important area of focus for them.
On the first question in terms of products, I think we are -- I presume when you say back to product changes, I think you're talking about the advertising experience. I think the main thing I would say is, I mean, we don't -- I think we have a long, long-term way of thinking about where we want to go and we have a disciplined framework by which we think and evolve our products. We don't necessarily look at it from a quarter-on-quarter basis, though we obviously have had consistent performances. We approach our work differently, and so you are going to have quarter-to-quarter variations once in a while. But we remain confident about the opportunities we see. And I'm looking ahead to that, and we are focused on that.
And our next question comes from Dan Salmon of BMO Capital Markets.
Sundar, you'd reminded us how April and May are pretty big months for the company with a series of your large annual events. And of course, each of them -- each of those businesses have their own goals and targets. But we also hear -- continue to hear more about your teams working together, for example, a large cloud engagement leading to higher ad spending from an enterprise. Can you talk to us just a little bit about how you balance having your leaders grow their own businesses with also incentivizing them to work together? And then second and kind of completely differently, would love to just hear your updated views on data collection and use. I'm sure you've continued to have some dialogue with politicians and regulators. We've seen some reports on more potential changes in Chrome or within the advertising platform. Would love to hear how maybe your latest discussions are in view -- are informing both the near- and long-term view on policies with regards to data collection and use.
Thanks. And I mean you're right. These are a couple of very busy months, and it's particularly busy leading up to I/O. And I would say in terms of how we work together, first of all, as a company, I think we take our OKR process extraordinarily serious in a very committed way. And we do write cross-company OKRs, and it really reinforces ways by which different groups can work together. And we measure them and we will hold people accountable to that. That's an important part of how we get at businesses, both while they focus on their product areas, their business, they need to work together. Second, as a leadership attribute, it's something that's really important to me. And so it's something that the leaders across the table share that goal, and I think it's largely cultural as well.
Vis-à-vis, privacy, and it's actually one of our most important areas. As a company, we've always tried to stay a step ahead. User expectations around privacy are constantly evolving, and we stretch ourselves to meet them. And as part of that through this year, we are continuing to do a lot of work just with the overall goal of making sure privacy works for everyone and it's actually simple to use. And as part of that, we'll have more changes through the course of this year, be it Chrome. Chrome is super committed to making sure it's best in class in privacy and security, and we always put user experience first and follow through.
Through all these changes, we need to be mindful of the content ecosystem and the publisher ecosystem. Advertising continues to be an important way by which they create value and they see value. And so we are very thoughtful about how we approach our work.
And there's been a lot of interest across the board. I think we early on engaged with GDPR, they are big supporters of it in terms of being constructive and working early to get ready. I think it's important U.S. supports -- has a clear framework on a federal basis for privacy regulation, and it's something we feel is timely as well. And so we have called for it and happy to be thought leaders as well as engage where needed.
And our next question comes from Colin Sebastian of Baird.
I have a couple. First one, follow-up on the revenue growth dynamics, specifically the sequential growth trend. I wonder if we should assume now that there's greater seasonality in core search just given the increasing mix of shopping and product ad formats. And Sundar, question on AI and machine learning. Since clearly this remains an area of significant strength for the company, I'm wondering what stage of development you characterize these stools at being today? And whether we should expect the overall pace of advancement from AI to accelerate in terms of products and services?
On the first question around seasonality and stuff, I mean, we -- throughout the course of the year, we always deal with many events, no patterns. There are a few patterns, which are consistent year-on-year, but there are always one-off events, which happen. So there is in-built variation, so, which we work through every quarter, and so I think that's a natural part of what we do. There's definitely seasonality in businesses like Hardware, and that you are right. Commercial behavior has seasonality associated with it. But we do deal a lot with one-off events as well and -- but we always work our way through it.
On machine learning, I do think we are at very early days. I'm excited that, over the last 3 years, taking an AI-first approach, we've really incorporated machine learning core -- in a core way across our product to benefit our users. And that's true for advertising as well. I think we are in early stages of making it easier for businesses to understand what they're looking for and us taking care of more and more work, and we are doing it across the board. But there is a lot of headroom here.
And our next question comes from Justin Post of Bank of America.
Maybe one for Ruth and one for Sundar. First, Ruth, on mobile search, can you let us know how that did versus your expectations? I know there's a lot of noise from YouTube in that line. But how's mobile search doing? And what are the key drivers now for mobile search? Is it queries? Is it driving higher click-through rates, ad format changes? What are the drivers as you think about the next couple years? And then, Sundar, could you just -- on the Hardware business, I think there are some concerns that it's just not getting off to really strong trajectory, some comparisons to Microsoft 10 years ago. Really just help us understand how that Hardware business is important to Google and how you're thinking about it long term.
So in terms of mobile search and the Sites revenue more broadly, I think the main point is -- we both tried to indicate in opening comments is we view the advertising opportunity as significant, in particular the opportunity with machine learning both for users and advertisers as well as our commitment to product innovation and being the backdrop of an environment which nearly half of ad budgets in the U.S. are still spent offline and about 90% of commerce in the U.S. is still offline. And we're focused on digital playing a bigger role in that and tapping into other marketing budgets by offering an attractive ROI.
And then apart from people spending more time on digital content, to your question, we know that better measurement, better ad delivery, better user experiences all help grow the pie for everyone in the ecosystem. And then more broadly within YouTube, as we talked about last quarter, we do continue to see significant growth in direct response, and we remain excited about the upside potential there. Brand advertising is still the largest part of the business. It's growing at a strong pace, but we called out direct response given what we see as the upside potential.
And Justin, on the Hardware business, as I said earlier, we are still in our early days, but our commitment is very strong. We really see this incredibly important to drive the future of computing forward and to make sure our services are presented to users in a -- in the way that we intended them to be. And so overall, we view this as a hugely important opportunity.
When we look at the business even for -- given we are more recent to it, we already -- if you take areas like Google Home and Assistant product, we are doing really well. We see strong momentum. I think we are market leaders in the category and especially when you take a look at it on a global basis. And so for -- computing will continue to evolve even beyond phones. And so we want to make sure we are in there, and we are very committed to it for the long term.
Our phones, definitely across as an industry, I think they are working through a phase where there is definite year-on-year headwinds. But I do think -- especially the ecosystem is constantly pushing it forward. I continue to be excited about the innovation speed, 5G coming or the early look into foldable phones, which Android plays a big part in driving. So I do think there is a lot more to come, and we are focused on it. And I -- when I look at the product quality, how it's improving, user feedback in terms of Net Promoter Scores and the range of lineup that we are working and how our products are getting better year-on-year, I remain very excited.
And our next question comes from Ross Sandler of Barclays.
I guess I'll just beat the dead horse on the deceleration comment again but maybe a different way, Ruth. So why did Europe and U.S. -- Europe ex FX and U.S. growth rates drop off much more than Asia and then other? Any comment on why the decel was more pronounced in Western markets? And then stepping back, we've seen pretty solid growth rates from the digital ad sector broadly in the first quarter, and you flagged a lot of this back in February, so clearly, this isn't a surprise to you. But how much of the deceleration in Sites ex FX was from maybe advertiser demand issues in these markets versus proactive changes that you may have made on your end to the product?
So in terms of the regions, the year-on-year growth rates reflect the product comments that I made with respect to the first quarter. The -- I think the -- you had the U.S. -- U.S. and Europe had about the same delta year-on-year. Other Americas was more pronounced. That was really more of the impact of Hardware. And then APAC, I think maybe is what was guiding some of your question, continues to be a very strong performer and continue to deliver in the 30% plus or I think 31% on a fixed FX basis. We're well positioned, growth throughout the region. Sundar's comment on some of the things that we're seeing, the big focus on the next billion users and excited about the opportunities across the board there.
And I don't think there were any demand issues, to the last part of your question. And as we said earlier, we work through a set of product development pipeline in a very disciplined way focused on user experience. And that makes its way, too, and that's how we approach it.
And our next question will be our final question today from the line of Brent Thill of Jefferies.
Just a follow-up on the last question on EMEA and U.S. Was there any go-to-market changes in terms of the sales force or how you set quota or anything that may have been effectively a Q1 seasonality issue that may see some snapback in Q2?
The opening comment, I said that one of the points is that we had a strong year last year and we're looking at performance in line with that. I would say more broadly overall in terms of go to market, our long-term investment thesis remains unchanged. We're excited about the opportunities ahead. We do continue to invest to ensure we remain well positioned for the long term. That applies across the businesses. And so there wasn't a change that anything other than the comments that I had made. I think if I could just maybe expand on the investing pace, as we're looking at the pace of investing and supporting growth around the globe, what we're really looking at is what's needed to support long-term revenue and earnings growth. The operating margin did benefit in -- as I noted in my opening comments that -- from the fact that Q1 marketing expenses growth moderated, but that was a timing issue. We do expect a pickup in marketing expense in the second quarter, and other than that, really nothing to comment on.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Ellen West for closing remarks.
Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again on our second quarter call. Thank you, and have a good afternoon.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.