Sanjay, just a couple of questions. I guess, first on the supply shortages that you talked about. Could you please elaborate? Because on one hand, you're talking about some shortages. On the other hand, the inventories are going up as we head into the next quarter. And then I have a follow-up.
So as we said last time as well as in this earnings call that we have certain shortages in DRAM on the leading-edge nodes, and we have brought down our inventory here, overall inventory down fairly fast, as Dave pointed out. And we have seen strong growth in demand in DRAM on high-quality, high-density modules for servers as well as demand trends have continued to be pretty solid. So shortages on the leading-edge nodes on DRAM.
And on the NAND side, we have SSD demand going up substantially. And our 96-layer products, as we expand the portfolio, are being qualified by customers. We are seeing strong demand on our 64-layer node, where we are actually seeing some shortages. And of course, as we mentioned, we experience some back-end constraints as well. We have invested in back-end capacity, assembly and test capacity expansion, and that's -- will -- assembly and test issues impacting some of our multi-die stack on the mobile solutions as well as SSD solutions. The assembly and test constraints will be eliminated largely by the end of fiscal second quarter.
So these are some of the things that are impacting some of the shortages both in DRAM and on the NAND side. And again, the demand trends continue to be solid. Of course, in CQ1, we see seasonality. And yes, some of our inventory may go up at the end of fiscal Q2. But overall, our normal inventory days is around, as we look ahead, is around 110 days and that's really a function of increasing complexity coming from the technology nodes as well as, as we shift toward high-value solutions, more SSDs, more multi-chip packages, they take longer assembly and test times as well. So those are the ones that are contributing to some of the aspects of days of inventory that when we foresee in the future, we look at it as approximately 110 days.
So industry environment, in terms of demand, continues to be solid, pockets of shortages building all across the industry, certainly, we are experiencing that. And pricing trends overall in the industry. As you look ahead at 2020, we are yet optimistic about the improving pricing trends in the industry as well.
Congratulations on the solid results. Sanjay, I wanted to talk a little bit about the CapEx guidance for this fiscal year. I think I understand the strategy around NAND to, kind of, constrain spending on the first generation of replacement gate where cost downs are de minimis and, kind of, weighed to Version 2.0. But I'm kind of curious, as you think about the DRAM strategy, especially given that demand came in much stronger than expected, this year, 20%, and there were some of us that thought at the beginning of the year, we'd be lucky to get to low double-digit growth. How do we think about DRAM CapEx from here and your ability to, kind of, keep up with industry bit growth? And I guess, specifically, my question is, how much circular leeway do you have in moving more of your mix of DRAM towards the leading-edge node as a way to grow bits rather than just shrinking?
Certainly, as we move our DRAM production to leading-edge node, for example, through 1Z that we mentioned that we did very well with ramping 1Z DRAM node in our mobile products during the quarter, so of course, those give us bit growth. It comes with the shrink capability, and technology transitions are the best way to achieve ROI as well. What's important is that we are being extremely disciplined and prudent in terms of managing our supply bit growth, and we want to make sure that it's aligned with our bit demand growth as well, as our long-term objective is to have our supply bit growth CAGR to be aligned with the industry demand growth CAGR. We mentioned that in 2019, our DRAM supply growth somewhat below the industry supply growth. And in fiscal year 2020, we -- in calendar year 2020, we see our supply growth to be somewhat above the industry supply growth. But all in all, our strategy is to have our supply growth CAGR to be aligned with the industry demand growth CAGR. We feel very good about -- when we look ahead at 2020, our supply overall position, and yes, I mean, we are experiencing certain shortages on leading nodes. And we believe that some of these shortages in the industry as well as, for us, will continue in calendar year 2020 time frame. And frankly, that's a good place to be at in terms of running the business because it helps you manage the best mix of the business as well in terms of revenue and profitability.
Our next question comes from C.J. Muse of Evercore.
I guess a question on the DRAM demand side. You're outlining an outlook for 15 -- or sorry, mid-teens growth in 2020. I'm curious, as you think about that number, how much of that, I guess, relates to potential pulling of China demand, potential conservatism on your part? And within that, what kind of assumptions are you making around 5G handsets and continued cloud spending through 2020?
So certainly, 5G will be a growth driver. We expect 5G handsets, smartphones to be more weighted toward the second half of the calendar year. Cloud CapEx, as you have seen the reports from various major cloud providers, cloud CapEx continues to be healthy. A meaningful portion of that cloud CapEx goes into memory and storage and that continues to drive above-average industry -- above-average demand as a percentage versus the average of the total DRAM industry. And 5G phones, I think it's important to note that content continues to grow as we mentioned in our script. I mean, of course, 4G phones content continues to grow, but 5G phones are driving a step-level function increase in the average content of both DRAM as well as NAND.
And our estimation is that in calendar year 2020, approximately $200 million of 5G smartphones to be sold on a global basis. So overall, when we look at the demand -- industry demand of mid-teens that we have projected for calendar year 2020, keep in mind that it's building upon calendar year 2019, where industry demand in the second half came in quite strong. And in fact, we upped our estimate of industry demand growth to approximately 20% for 2019. So you are working off a large demand, larger than previously expected total bit shipments in 2019. And obviously, that has an impact on the percentage that we look at for 2020. But in terms of aggregate of bit demand, that continues to be pretty solid in 2020 as well. And as we said, 2019 was a headwind in terms of demand and supply for the industry. In 2020, we look at demand and supply balance as a tailwind for the industry.
Our next question comes from Aaron Rakers of Wells Fargo Securities.
I guess, just on the capital expenditure front. Obviously, you guys have talked about reiterating the CapEx, but you're also, on the Taiwan fab, you're noting that, that fab is capable of EUV. I know you've talked about that you don't need that through the 1-gamma node, but it kind of suggests that you are looking at EUV as potentially something that you're evaluating. Have you pulled in all your thoughts on EUV? And how do we think about that in the context of CapEx, not necessarily this year, but looking out into the subsequent years?
So at this point, we are not providing guidance for any time frame beyond our fiscal year 2020 in terms of CapEx. But as we have always said, we have been evaluating EUV technology. We have carefully evaluated EUV technology in terms of determining our road map for DRAM. And as you noted, through -- we have said that through 1-gamma node, today, we are in production with now 1Z node, starting production with 1Z, and of course, volume production also of 1Y node. So from 1Y to 1Z, as we look ahead at the next few generations through 1-alpha, 1-beta and 1-gamma generations, we see that multi-patterning techniques, along with immersion technology, will serve us well in terms of achieving our cost objective and having a highly cost-competitive road map for us. So we have also said that we continue to evaluate EUV. And when we see it appropriate for deployment in our DRAM production in terms of cost and efficiency of production, we will certainly be deploying it at a future time in that. But at this point, we see our technology road map through 1-gamma node to be in strong position, while we remain encouraged seeing the improvement in EUV productivity tool as well.
But regarding CapEx for future years, we'll obviously always manage it as a function of our supply growth expectations as well as, as a function of technology and cost competitiveness and keeping our supply growth, as I said previously, aligned with demand CAGR. That's how we will manage it, and we'll share those details with you at appropriate time in the future.
Our next question comes from Mark Delaney of Goldman Sachs.
I was hoping to better understand the company's commentary on its own inventory, which -- nice to see that come down in dollars and days in the just-completed quarter. As you think about your inventory, as you move through the year, I understood some of the aggregate commentary, but can you be a bit more specific? Because I think the company had been carrying extra inventory of some of these older DRAM nodes. When do you think that gets used up? And when you talk about 110 days, Sanjay, is that being on a more normal level of inventory, just given because the company is going to be carrying the extra NAND inventory for the replacement gate node? Should we be thinking about inventory running above 110 to allow for that this year? Or is the 110 really a this-year comment as you carry some of that extra replacement gate inventory? And longer term, it's something lower than that?
Yes. That's a good question. Why don't I try to take a crack at that first? So yes, the comment around 110 days is kind of an optimal level of inventory when we have worked off all of the excess inventory associated with the replacement gate transition and as inventories normalize. Obviously, in the 121 days of inventory that we have today, DRAM is a bit below that. Really what pulls it up to 121 is that NAND is quite a bit higher than that by virtue of the fact that we are executing on this strategy to hold a lot of inventory as we go into our replacement gate transition to augment what won't be a robust bit growth from that first node. As Sanjay mentioned, we do expect days of inventory to go up a bit based on mix and so forth in the second quarter because of seasonality, but we would expect it then to start trending down over the next few quarters, partly as we start to utilize this excess NAND inventory for the replacement gate transition and also as we start to digest and manage through this -- the mix challenges that have created a little bit of excess spill on the DRAM front. So it's just we should be in a pretty healthy place on DRAM within a couple of quarters.
Our next question comes from Ambrish Srivastava of BMO Capital Markets.
Good to see you power through this downturn with positive free cash flow. I just wanted to get back to the comment that, Sanjay, you were making about the fiscal second quarter marking the bottom for fundamentals. And CapEx seems to be a little bit front-end loaded. So is free cash flow going to be positive in the fiscal second quarter as well?
So I'll take a crack at that one, too. I would say, maybe to start with, that the first priority of the company is to make the appropriate level investments, both in terms of R&D, and which is why we have had a little bit of an increase in operating expenses because we do want to put the right level of investment in new products, particularly high-value solution products that will ultimately be the big factor in terms of our performance over the coming years. And in addition, we obviously want to make the appropriate level in terms of CapEx investments to make sure that we are, as Sanjay mentioned, investing the right level to manage supply growth and to make these node transitions.
Secondarily, of course, our goal is to generate good free cash flow. And ideally, it would be to generate pretty consistent free cash flow over multiple -- or over every quarter. I would say, in the second quarter, what we feel really confident about is that cash flow from operations is going to be very strong. And we will, again, make appropriate level of CapEx investment that could drive the free cash flow to be slightly negative or roughly around 0 or potentially even a little bit more positive, but we're going to make the capital investment be what's appropriate and let free cash flow go where it goes. I would say though, just to put this in perspective, the trough quarter of 2016, in terms of free cash flow, was negative $1.3 billion, I believe. And so if you compare that to whatever we end up doing for the second quarter, this will be massively better in terms of cash flow generation, and of course, that's an indication of -- or an example of how we have structurally improved the business from a cost-competitive perspective and from a cash flow perspective. And indeed, if this does turn out to be the bottom, as Sanjay indicated, it is our expectation, barring any sort of macro event or trade event, we would expect free cash flow to track more positively through the remainder of the fiscal year and into the next fiscal year. So this year will be actually a pretty good year in terms of free cash flow. That will be 4 consecutive years of positive, significantly positive free cash flow for the company, which, of course, has never been done in Micron's history.
So again, ideally, we'd like to have every quarter be positive. That may or may not happen this quarter, but clearly, we're on the right track in terms of generating positive free cash flow for the company.
Our next question comes from Harlan Sur of JP Morgan.
We've seen a strong reacceleration in cloud and hyperscale spending. Also seeing some near-term strong server builds by the Asia ODMs. And it appears that the excess DRAM channel inventories in this segment have been worked on. But wanted to get your views here. And typically, the cloud spending up-cycle duration is about 3 to 4 quarters. So even in a seasonally weaker period for PCs and smartphones in the first part of next year, do you see the server and data center demand remaining fairly strong?
Yes. As we look ahead, we do see server and data center demand, particularly within cloud, to be strong. We have had, as we mentioned, in our FQ1, strong growth from cloud, and we certainly see that happening through 2020 as well. As we mentioned, high densities are actually in shortage in the industry. And it really is about all the trend of more AI workloads, more need for memory and storage, as EUVs get introduced, that can work with higher-density memory as well as have more channels, which is increasing the attach rate of DRAM content per server and increasing it. So these are all the trends that actually point to continuing higher-than-industry-average level of growth for DRAMs in the cloud and server.
And same thing on the NAND, on the SSD front, average density as well as the average usage of flash in cloud and data center applications continues to increase. And we have always said that this is a long-term demand driver for memory and storage industry. And memory and storage is critical in terms of driving greater value in these cloud applications and in these enterprise applications, and hence, you are seeing continuing strong growth in these end market segments.
And I would just like to point it out that even in 2019, while the demand to the suppliers was weaker in the first half of the year because the customers, particularly in this space, were using up the inventory that they had to meet end consumption, but it's important to understand that the end consumption of DRAM and NAND, even in challenging 2019 periods, continued to be healthy. And as we look ahead, this will be a strong driver of growth in the industry.
But I just want to point out that as we previously discussed, smartphones, content growth there; automotive applications, continuing to drive greater content; graphics, gaming consoles, new gaming consoles are also driving HDD replacement with SSDs as well as greater DRAM content in those applications. So I think the demand drivers and our thesis that has always been there that the industry has strong demand drivers has very much been intact. And we look forward to good environment for our industry in 2020.
Our next question comes from David Wong of Instinet.
Could you tell us what proportion of DRAM bits are currently on 1Z technology? And what do you expect will be on 1Z technology by the end of calendar 2020? And what's the differences between cost per bit on 1Z compared to 1Y?
So we don't provide cost details with respect to 1Z versus 1Y or from one node to the other node. But as we have said before that we expect our 1Y plus 1Z combined bit production to cross over our total bit production by summer 2020. That means bit crossover with 1Y and 1Z combined by summer 2020. And as we mentioned, we are doing well with our 1Z. And in fact, in mobile products, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, we saw the fastest ramp of 1Z node in the history of our mobile presence.
Our next question comes from Joe Moore of Morgan Stanley.
I wanted to ask a bit more about the China inventory build that you talked about. Can you, kind of, talk about the reasons? Is it concern about ability to procure? Is it tariff related? What's the reason for the pull in? And any way you can help us, kind of, understand the magnitude would be helpful.
As we have mentioned before, we saw some China buying pattern that was above normal compared to the past that we have seen, and we attribute that to some of the U.S.-China trade tensions and perhaps some of the customers in China procuring and shifting to perhaps a longer-term strategy of carrying more inventory because in terms of the U.S.-China trade aspects, while Phase 1 deal is definitely encouraging to see that it's happening, but lack -- there is still ongoing for longer-term lack of clarity. So perhaps some of the China customers have shifted their strategy toward carrying higher levels of inventory. I would say that, that perhaps is an important reason.
There's, of course, Chinese New Year as well that can play a role in the China demand. Chinese New Year is earlier this year compared to the typical years. But there is no question that most important thing is that the underlying demand drivers are strong. And when you look at smartphone content growth that's happening in all smartphones across the globe, including the ones sold by the China manufacturers, the content, both on DRAM and NAND side, continues to increase. And certainly, as we have talked about, 5G is the significant driver. And certainly, 5G phones are planned to be sold, perhaps in the largest quantities, in China first. So all of these underlying demand trends, I think, are the most important thing here as well.
Our next question comes from Blayne Curtis of Barclays.
Maybe, Sanjay, just to follow on Joe's question. Just kind of curious, you said it'd take a couple of quarters for Huawei to get back in the numbers. Are you embedding anything in the calendar '20 outlook you have? And I'm just kind of curious, following on that point, in terms of you're expecting some moderation from China. Have you seen any signs of that yet?
I'm sorry. I didn't quite get the last part of the question. Expecting...
Following on Joe's question, you're expecting some moderation after an inventory build. Have you seen it yet? Or is that just something you expect will happen at some point?
The -- what we said is that in terms of our estimation of the industry demand growth in calendar year 2020, we have baked in that some of the inventory that we may have seen China customers build, we have baked in that some of that will be consumed, and inventory levels will be lower than what we may be thinking at this point with those customers over the course of calendar year 2020.
And with respect to your first piece of the question on Huawei, we mentioned that now that we have received the licenses, we are able to work with them on new product qualifications. And as you know well, new product qualifications do take a few months, a couple of quarters, before they get qualified into new platforms, and then we can potentially look at additional opportunities. But at this point, I mean, our focus is to resume that product qualification work, both for server as well as mobile applications.
Our next question comes from Raji Gill of Needham & Company.
Yes. And congrats as well as you weather through this cycle. Question on mix shift for NAND specifically. Sanjay, you had mentioned that next year, you will be ramping at a higher rate NVMe, SSDs as well as UFS controllers in the China handset market. Could you talk a little bit about the trajectory of those products and how that positive mix shift in NAND will potentially affect overall margins?
I'll have Dave comment on the margin piece of it. But certainly, as we expand our portfolio of NVMe solutions for -- from clients to data center and, of course, certainly on the consumer side as well, we have done well, as we reported for our FQ1, in terms of expanding the portfolio and capitalizing on increased sales of SSDs, and we certainly look at gaining share throughout calendar 2020 as we expand our portfolio there. I think what's important to note is that our share there is today underrepresented. So as we shift toward these higher-value solutions with expanded portfolio, I mean we are basically trying to bring our share in line with what it should be given our share of the total NAND bits, and this is the part of the strategy that we talked about in terms of shifting the mix of our high-value solutions, which now are at about 50% in terms of bits toward higher number in the future. And of course, part of that ongoing shift is toward multi-chip packages as well as discrete, managed NAND solutions for mobile applications, where we pointed out that on a year-over-year basis, we have increased our share by 50%. Yet we remain underrepresented, and therein lies further opportunity for us to be increasing our share in these markets.
So high-value solutions is a very important part of our strategy. It enables us to gain greater stability, greater margin opportunity through the cycles as well as brings us closer to understanding the application landscape with the customer, and I'm very pleased that Micron is executing quite well with respect to achieving our objective in this area.
So obviously, high-value solutions, the reason -- one of the major reasons we're shifting the strategy to high-value solutions is because they carry higher margins. And I'll just give you a data point. If you look back at fiscal '19 and look at these high-value solutions relative to consumer components, you'll find the margins were about 30 points -- 30 percentage points higher. So significantly higher opportunity to get higher margins. And of course, that obviously helps the overall margins of the company.
Our last question comes from the line of Hans Mosesmann of Rosenblatt Securities.
Congratulations to the team for the execution. Sanjay, on the server and data center module dynamic where you're seeing a higher mix of quality or higher density, what was the density on average a year ago just to get a reference on how that has improved? And what exactly is driving this move? Is it a new process or architecture? Is it market share gains? That would be helpful.
Yes. In cloud servers as well as enterprise server, average density is around 3 giga -- 300 gigabyte per server average consumption of DRAM, and this trend is expected. When you look at the CAGR over the next few years, expect it to continue to go -- grow in double digit range anywhere, when you look at '19 to '22 kind of CAGR, around 20% CAGR for average content growth in servers, in cloud and enterprise applications. So this is definitely a high-growth area for the market.
And when you look at the new CPUs, like Cascade Lake and other new CPUs starting in 2019, as I mentioned earlier, they support the usage of higher-density chips. That means they support usage of 16-gigabyte chips as well as more channels in the new CPUs, and that is definitely driving greater ability to use more content per server for DRAM. And of course, at the end of the day, it's about the workloads that applications are running and those workloads are requiring -- increasing requirement for speed and that's translating into increasing requirement for memory as more and more real-time data analytics kind of applications and AI applications are being run in enterprise and data center and cloud applications.
Great. And as a quick follow-up, can you give us a commentary regarding 3D XPoint used in main memory? If there is a road map for that this year -- this coming year?
So 3D XPoint, certainly, as we said, exciting opportunity for us longer term. It definitely gives us differentiated opportunity with -- as the only company in the world having NAND, DRAM and 3D XPoint. We have just introduced our first storage product with 3D XPoint, the world's fastest SSD. And as you noted, I mean 3D XPoint certainly has opportunities on the memory side of the business as well. And as we look at engaging with the ecosystem, as we look at developing our products, these are the kind of opportunities, both on the memory semantic applications as well as storage side of the applications we'll be addressing over the course of next few years, as we expand our product portfolio in this area.
But certainly, 3D XPoint -- again, these kind of things, breakthrough technologies, take multiple years and require a lot of ecosystem work to get the full use of the technology. And we are well on our way, as we discussed, at Micron Insight. And let me put the plug here again that if you have not watched it, please do watch Sumit's presentation. I think it gives you a pretty good perspective on the capabilities of 3D XPoint technology and our vision of the future with it.
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.