Just relative to the DC -- the data-centric guidance for the full year of up mid-single digits year-over-year in calendar year '19, you did a good job kind of explaining what's causing the weakness in Q1, DCG and the NAND pricing.
But as you look throughout the year from a minus kind of low single digits to full year being mid-single-digit growth, you are kind of looking for an acceleration against what becomes harder year-over-year compares in the June and September time frame at least.
I'm just kind of curious if you can help us frame how you think that that reacceleration occurs. How long of a pause are you seeing with the cloud customers? And importantly, how are you thinking about increased competition in '19 in the data-centric businesses, especially in the server business, as you think about mid-single-digit year-over-year growth?
Yes. Thanks for your one question, John. I'll take a stab, and then Navin is here with me as well, I'm sure he has a few comments. First, I would say that since we look at just overall demand for the data center environment, the end user demand by consumers and by enterprises, the workloads that we're seeing, the continued growth in workloads, we are as excited about the future as we've ever been. So we feel pretty good about the medium and long-term trends.
As you know, in 2018, our growth rate, particularly in the cloud, was up 45% through the first 9 months of the year. So what we saw in the fourth quarter was -- as I had mentioned, we saw a little bit of consumption going on.
As you know, the purchases are done in -- kind of in cycles, massive purchases through the first 9 months. And we started to see some of those purchases consumed in the fourth quarter. And we end the year, we think, with inventory levels on the server side of the business just a little bit higher than they had been historically.
So as we project forward in the first 6 months of the year, we think that it's going to continue to be both consumption on the server side and pricing in the NSG environment to be down through the first 6 months. And consistent with kind of historical patterns, we do expect the purchasing to start picking up again in the second half of the year. That's kind of how we see it. Long -- medium, long-term, we feel great, massive buying in the first 9 months. The buying slowed a bit in the fourth quarter, and we expect that to continue through the first 6 months.
I think just -- I think the last part of your question, I think just competitively, then I'll tick it over to Navin, look, we're going into 2019 with every expectation to compete, to protect our share position across our entire business. So we're going to -- we're obviously investing in the capital required to ensure we don't constrain customers' growth. We're continuing to invest in R&D.
And third, we're going to invest to protect our competitive position, both on the PC side and the data-centric side. So yes, we expect competition to be stronger as we go through '19, but we're going to -- our guidance incorporates the fact that we're going to fight to protect our position. Navin, any...
Maybe the only thing I'd add, John, is that from a product point of view, the dynamic to think about in 2019 is that, as Bob mentioned, we began shipping for production Cascade Lake, our next-generation Xeon. And really, that product is going to ramp -- start to ramp in the middle part of the year and into the second half of the year.
The design momentum looks very strong. The product features look very compelling. The AI capability we have with DL Boost, the support for Optane persistent memory, the security, hardware mitigation fixes, so that the customer momentum around that product line looks very strong.
But it really doesn't ramp until the middle to the second half of the year. So as Bob said, the first half, a little bit tougher but second half, with product momentum as well as what we're hearing from our customers, we expect to be better in the Data Center Group.
And our next question comes from Stacy Rasgon with Bernstein Research.
To maybe generalize on that, if I just look through your guidance, you're basically guiding flat in Q1. And roughly flattish for the full year would suggest that overall, you're looking for a revenue trajectory in 2019 that's very similar to the trajectory you had in 2018, which was very, very strong sequentially, in many of the quarters.
So I guess, what is the risk, just given everything that's going on that that may be too aggressive, especially as you had a number of drivers in 2018, both on the data center as well as on the client side, that aren't going to be repeating in 2019? Like how do we think about that?
Well, first, yes, 2018 was a great year, as we mentioned earlier, it grew during the course of the year. But a function, we believe, Stacy, is just the end demand for data. And we haven't seen that slow down at all. Again, on workloads, insights from our customer in the industry, workloads continue to grow. The demand for analytics for compute, for storage, for rapid retrieval, we think, only continues to grow.
And we believe that we have a very good position as we go into the year, including the products that Navin referenced. So we go into the year, we think, setting expectations in line with how we expect things to play out. And I would say today, our outlook is a little more cautious than it was a few months ago.
And we try to take into account both the macroeconomics, the geopolitical risk, the modest inventory build as we enter the year and the competitive environment. We've kind of taken those into account, reflected them the best we can as we go into the year, and we feel pretty good about how things stack up right now. And our expectation as we have in the past is to deliver on the commitments we make as we kick off the year.
And our next question comes from Pierre Ferragu with New Street Research.
I was surprised, Bob, on your CapEx guidance and especially on the memory side. So my understanding is that last year, you spent about $3 billion there, with about half of that money actually coming from your clients, so not being actually Intel capital being deployed.
So if you had $1.5 billion of Intel capital deployed in memory last year, if I look at your guide and seeing logic is slightly up, memory is going to be slightly down, so the actual Intel capital invested, deployed into memory this year is going to be up massively, maybe close to 2x. And that's in a year in which everybody in the value chain, everybody in the memory industry is actually pulling back on CapEx and limiting capacity addition. So I'd love to understand how you see that and how you position Intel this year in memory.
Yes. First, just to maybe start with as we see kind of free cash flow for the year, we expect to be up $2 billion year-on-year with gross capital relatively flat. And I think you said this, but just to repeat, $15.5 billion going to $15.5 billion.
During the course of '19, our expectations are, of that mix, that we'll be more logic-oriented. And that's really driven by a couple of things: one, ensuring we have the capacity to meet the 14-nanometer demand for our customers; secondly, as we ramp 10-nanometer in 2019 and position for 10- in 2020, we'll invest additional capital there; and then third, obviously, our expectations are to continue to invest in next-node technology, in particular, 7-nanometer.
So logic capital is going to be going up year-on-year. And as we indicated, memory capital will be coming down. We put the capacity in place in Dalian during the course of '17 and '18, and our expectations are in 2019 that we have sufficient capacity for demand. However, we are going to be investing in our own capabilities, our self-sufficiencies for Optane product. So we will use some capital on building out Optane capacity, but memory capital will be a bit lower, gross capital will be a bit lower during the course of the year.
Our next question comes from Chris Danely with Citigroup.
I'm going to shift to the expense line. So maybe give us a little more color on OpEx and gross margin trends and how you're going to hit the operating margin target.
Yes. So first, gross margin. The qualitative context is we expect gross margin to come down modestly off of Q4 levels and a little bit more off full year '18 levels. And we do expect that that will be largely, although not completely, offset by spending as a percentage of revenue coming down again in 2019.
I think just on the gross margin, the trends are going to be a little bit similar to what you've seen in the past, although we do expect a little bit less ASP -- gross margin improvement from ASP. We expect unit cost to be up a little bit, and that will be primarily as we ramp 10-nanometer. And then the mix dynamics of more memory and more modem will weigh on gross margin a bit. So year-on-year, we expect gross margins to come down a little bit.
On spending, as you know, we kind of -- we exit this year with spending levels down in the -- 26% in the fourth quarter and a little under 29% for the full year. So we're way ahead of our -- the 3-year plans that we laid out a couple of years ago, and we feel pretty good about the progress we made on the spending. And we've done it without cutting R&D.
During that time frame, R&D has grown. We've been investing in the right things. Those things are growing faster. As a result, spending has come down 700 points from 2015 levels. As we go into 2019, spending overall, we expect to come down.
Some things we did during the course of the second half of '18, including the exit of -- we exited Wind River. We exited wearables. We exited some of our new technology, small little businesses. We exited those businesses in the second half of the year, and we did some restructuring in the second half of the year. So as we go into '18, all that benefit from a relatively low Q4 $4.9 billion run rate, we expect that spending for the full year will be down year-on-year.
So you net all that together and we have a -- we've been really focused on growing the operating income dollars of the company. We're not -- we focus on, but we're not preoccupied, with where the gross margin's going to land. Our focus has been on how do we grow the operating income dollars of the company. And in a relatively small growth year, we see keeping operating margins at 34% to be in a relatively good place without cheating the investments we need to make to continue to progress into '19 and '20.
And our next question comes from Ross Seymore with Deutsche Bank.
Just wanted to follow up, Bob, you gave a lot of great detail there on the margin side, especially on the OpEx side. I wanted to go right back to the gross margin side, though. And somewhat simplistically perhaps, but you kept the gross margin guide basically the same as you did at the end of last quarter despite the headwinds to mix seemingly with your data centric commentary and data center being worse and your revenue being lower.
So is there any more color you can give on the puts and takes that leads to just the modest decrease given those other variables that seem like they have increased as headwinds from when you last talked about gross margin in '19?
Yes. The gross margin, Ross, isn't really any different. The puts and takes back then, as I indicated, were modest ASP growth. As we are going to fight to protect our market share position, we don't expect a lot of ASP growth. Again, 10-nanometer ramp, not really any different.
I highlighted in the prepared remarks, we feel very good about kind of where we are in ramping 10-nanometer during the course of the year to get systems on the shelf for the holiday season, so no real change there. And modem and memory growth will be a little bit slower today versus where we were 90 days ago. So, on the operating margin -- or operating margin percent, that's a slight positive.
The real only change from 90 days ago is just we're a little more cautious on our revenue outlook, and our spending hasn't really changed. So we got a slight -- not as much leverage that we expected back in October but still good spending leverage during the course of the year. So not really any different on the gross margin and spending dynamics that we thought 90 days ago except a little less leverage on the spending line.
Our next question comes from Vivek Arya with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Within DCG, how should we think about the mix, cloud versus comms versus enterprise for Q1 and 2019?
Yes. Thanks, Vivek, Navin here. Look, we've been -- over the last 18 months, been working hard to diversify the end customer segment mix inside of DCG, and there's 3 large components: the enterprise and government segment, the cloud segment and the comms segment.
Cloud and comms is about 2/3 of the business now, where it was about 1/3 several years ago. And so I don't see any major changes to the way things play out in terms of where the growth will come from as we look into 2019 and beyond. While the first half in the cloud will be a little bit tougher, we do expect that cloud continues to grow as they start to move and to build out again in the second half.
In comms segment, we continue to gain share in that segment, a large TAM where we have relatively small share. And as we grow our network SoC portfolio and as the market moves to 5G, we expect to continue to gain share.
And in the enterprise and government segment, while we've seen stabilization there over the last 4 or 5 quarters, we're not really counting on the enterprise and government segment for growth. We do expect that enterprises will continue to make strategic choices about what to deploy on-premise and what to deploy in the cloud. And in general, that business is not one that we count on for growth. So in general, you'll see us continue to push on comms and cloud to drive growth, particularly in the second half of the year.
Our next question comes from Chris Caso with Raymond James.
Just wanted to receive an update on some of the CPU shortages that you've been experiencing, how you're progressing on alleviating the shortages, what effect that may have had on the Q4 results given that, I guess, there was some supply tightness at least coming into the quarter.
And then on that, with demand slowing a bit, is there any fear? Do you have any visibility about customers who may have attempted or succeeded in building some inventory amid those shortages?
Yes. First, in the fourth quarter, just in terms of isolating how we prioritize our capacity, there were no shortages within the client business, prioritization of big core and, to a lesser extent, small core, lower value-oriented products.
And so we did -- we do feel like we constrained a fairly healthy PC ecosystem in the fourth quarter. I think when the dust settles on PC TAM, our expectation is it was probably flat and our shipments were down 2%. That was a function of we delivered every product that we could right up through December 30 -- 31. So we did have some constraints on the ecosystem and on our customers during the course of the quarter.
At the end of the year, Chris, I think inventory levels relative to the beginning of the year were a little bit higher, maybe a 1.5 weeks, 2 weeks higher as we entered the year. And our expectations for the year is the PC TAM is going to be relatively flat. And that, for us, is a good place to be.
We're probably halfway through the PC refresh cycle. We feel things have been relatively flat during the year. Inventory levels in the channel is a little bit higher ending the year. For us, inventory levels were relatively low as you might imagine on CPU just because of the constraints we've been dealing with.
Our expectation is, working with our customers, that we will be through the supply constraints as we exit the second quarter of the year. Again, we'll use the same prioritization of server, big core, small core. But we'll be a little bit short on some product mix and on small core until we get probably through to the second quarter. And that will constrain us a little bit on just overall growth in the first half of the year.
And our next question comes from Harlan Sur, JPMorgan.
Just wanted to get an update on 10-nanometer manufacturability. I know last quarter, the team mentioned that 10-nanometer yields where tracking 14-nanometer yields at a similar point prior to production ramp. Is the team still seeing good improvements in 10-nanometer yields? Are you still tracking 14-nanometer yield ramps? And can you just give us an update on early 7-nanometer development and manufacturability?
Harlan, this is Murthy. I'll take that question. I can only add to what Bob said in his opening statements that we continue to make solid progress against our plan that we shared with you during the course of 2018. And as I said on the last call, I feel better about our traction today than I did 90 days ago.
So that continues to bode well for our product launch ambitions, which Bob summarized as having systems on the shelf for holiday season in 2019, with a barrage of products across all of our businesses to follow shortly thereafter.
And I would like to take the opportunity to just remind everybody that at CES and in the analyst meeting we had at the end of last year, we did show 10-nanometers across the entire portfolio of our product ranges. We talked about Ice Lake clients, which clearly was top of mind in the early discussions, but we also talked about Lakefield, Bob mentioned that as well. We also -- Navin talked about 10-nanometers for Ice Lake server. And we also talked about 10-nanometers moving into our networking and 5G program, which we believe is going to be a big growth sector.
So the story is not just about 10-nanometer yields but 10-nanometer now being a key part of our entire product portfolio. And as I say, I think that, coupled with our focus on the pillars of technology that Bob talked about, in my mind, I think, puts our product portfolio looking forward in a pretty good position.
So net-net, I think 10-nanometer is looking better now than at the last earnings call. It's broadly deployed across our portfolio. And that, in combination with the other technology gradients, that Bob talked about, we believe, sets us up for a pretty exciting product road map.
Our next question comes from Ambrish Srivastava with BMO.
Bob, I just wanted to go back to the NSG and the profitability in what was a really booming year for memory. Obviously, price has started to come down back half of the year, but NSG was barely profitable.
So just from a CFO perspective, what is your tolerance level for having a business, a segment that could go into a deep cyclical downturn and -- not could, it is heading into a deep cyclical downturn. So how do you think about having a commodity within the Intel umbrella and, again, the risk -- not risk tolerance, the tolerance for lack of profitability? Just your perspective on that, please.
Yes. First, a couple of things. When we look at -- I mentioned this in the prepared remarks, and Murthy touched on it. When we look at the technologies that we believe are going to be imperatives going forward in this increasingly data-centric world: process, CPU architecture, interconnect, software, memory is a key component. And all the advancements in CPUs will be constrained if you don't have differentiated technology in memory. So we think that the role memory plays going forward is increasingly important.
In terms of the -- just the CFO lens of having a commodity in the portfolio, I'm not too excited about it. And that's why the investments we're making in memory are for, what we believe, differentiated technology, both in the manufacturing process capabilities of 3D NAND but also the differentiated technology for Optane and the role that it plays, both on the PC side but, most importantly, for us on the data-centric side.
So we're not particularly excited about commodities. When we make these investments, it's really geared towards products and technologies that are increasingly important and those technologies that are differentiated from kind of the core memory space that help us, in conjunction with the CPU, solve customers' problems.
I'll just maybe add one thing, it's Navin. As an example of that, the Optane persistent memory combined with Cascade Lake, Xeon plus Optane, that is a platform play. Optane persistent memory works uniquely with Xeon.
And as I think about and talk to customers about the massive amount of data growth we're seeing, the ability for us to uniquely tie those 2 assets together to solve customer problems is a differentiator for us and allows us to drive growth. And so to the extent we can exploit more of those kinds of opportunities, things get more exciting from a business unit GM point of view.
And our next question comes from Timothy Arcuri with UBS.
Navin, I had a question for you, and sort of there seems to be a little bit of a different tone between what we hear from your cloud customers, the compute guys, you and the memory guys are seeing weakness, but the networking companies still sound fine. So is it just an inventory digestion of computer and servers? Or is there something structural happening there?
Yes. I think, as Bob said, and I think we talked about a little bit, we had 3 quarters of really, really strong growth in 2018 in the cloud. And that was driven by a product cycle as well as a typical multiyear build-out pattern with Xeon Scalable.
And if you look back at all the historical trends we've had in the cloud business, we've always said there's some lumpiness to the business. And there's periods where people build, and then there's periods where people consume. The signals we get from our customers is a period of build for compute is going to shift now to a period of consumption. And that started in the second half, in the fourth quarter, and we expect that to continue through the first half of the year.
Secularly, over the long term, medium to long term, the cloud business is going to continue to grow. There's no doubt about that. Both the consumer cloud and the enterprise commercial cloud, we see both of those continuing to grow. And the appetite for compute, I think, is somewhat insatiable.
Bob talked about compute cycle growth. Our 5-year forecast for compute cycle growth, or MIPS growth, is 50% CAGR over the next 5 years. I see nothing slowing that down over the next number of years. So that would be how I'd kind of answer that one, Tim.
All right. Let me -- maybe if I could just close out, Mark. Look, we think 2018 was a great year. Our -- strategically, what it is we're trying to do and the opportunities we see are as strong, if not stronger, today heading forward as they've ever been. We think '19 for us is going to be another record year.
At the same time, we realize that first quarter is just going to be lower. And the practical reality is we got -- we think we have a reasonably good read on the level of inventory that's in the ecosystem. I'd say this particularly for we're getting better and better on the diagnostics around the DCG business. The Q4 to Q1 dynamics for DCG historically have been sequentially down 8% to 10%.
And the practical reality is, as we see it now, is that could be double in the first quarter. But that has nothing to do with the strength of the business, the product line portfolio we have coming and our excitement about delivering a real strong 2019 as we go forward. So thank you very much for joining us, and I'm sure we'll talk to you soon.
Operator, please go ahead and wrap up the call.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This concludes today's program, and you may all disconnect. Everyone, have a wonderful day.