Two, if I could. Sundar, on YouTube, you now have a number of brands in the marketplace between YouTube Premium, TV, YouTube Music. How are you thinking about positioning those brands against the global opportunity, especially in mobile, to consume media on a global scale? And how are you positioning those brands for the opportunity? And then, Ruth, I wanted to come back to a comment on revenue versus expense with respect to YouTube. It sounds like you called out YouTube as strong in the quarter on the revenue side, but is depressed on the expense side. Was that because of licensed content for things like Music and YouTube TV? Or what is ad splits? How should we think about what the drivers were there and how they're permanent versus seasonal in Q4?
Thanks, Eric. On the YouTube question, of course, our core effort is around the main YouTube product, and that is what works at scale globally across the world, and we are seeing continued engagement and it's doing very well. We are committed to making sure there is a premium experience on YouTube delivering the content people would want, and YouTube Music is an important part of that as well. So we are investing in both. As you know, YouTube TV is U.S. only, and we are definitely -- it's an exciting product, it's differentiated and has longer value for us because it brings our advertising products together, including being able to serve it across TV. So we're clearly investing in areas where we see opportunity. We are pretty thorough about making sure our investments deliver growth on the other side. And so we monitor it with metrics and -- be it engagement and revenue growth, and we see a lot of opportunity here.
And then, in terms of revenue and investments in YouTube, overall, as Sundar said, we're -- YouTube is continuing to benefit from the secular change and the way users are using content, and that's reflected in strong revenue growth. Brand advertising does remain the largest part of the business. It's grown at a strong pace. And as I've said in opening comments, we're particularly excited about the significant growth in direct response, both TrueView for action and app promo formats are delivering great value for users and advertisers, and that's driving growth across regions and channels. In terms of the expenses, I think what you're referring to is within other cost of revenues, the primary driver in the fourth quarter was the increase in content acquisition costs due to YouTube growth, and that's both for ad-supported content in what is typically a seasonally strong quarter and also for our newer subscription businesses, which do have higher CAC as a percentage of revenue. We're excited about the growth we're seeing here.
And our next question comes from Anthony DiClemente of Evercore.
I have one for Ruth and one for Sundar. Ruth, if I look at the segment operating losses for Other Bets, they were higher, both in the fourth quarter and for the year, '18 over '17. Is it safe to assume that's investments at Waymo? Or can you just flesh out a little bit more for us, if possible, were there other, Other Bets besides Waymo, which were worthy of call-out in terms of greater or decreasing investment, that would be great. And then, for Sundar, I'm just wondering if you could provide us any commentary about how growth at Cloud is going. Any milestones? Talked about the investment there. Ruth did, I think, in terms of headcount growth in technical and sales roles. And for the new leadership that you mentioned, what are the things that the new -- that Thomas Kurian can kind of do at Cloud to accelerate the next phase of growth in that business?
So in terms of the investment levels in Other Bets, the major point is that we're investing across Other Bets commensurate with what we think is required, kind of looking out at the opportunity set for each one, and we go through a regular process with weekly business reviews and quarterly board reviews and try and calibrate the appropriate pace of investment. In terms of the increase this quarter, as I indicated in the opening comments, we accrued some comp expenses for a number of bets, and that was really to reflect increases in the valuation of equity in certain Other Bets.
On Cloud, one of the things that was evident towards end of last year is, now, our ability to win very large customers, Global 5000 companies with multiyear contracts. And so that's definitely something we want to focus on. I think, Diane and Thomas have been working on closely on a transition with a lot of continuity. And you'll continue to see us -- it's very clear to us that our product offerings are ready and differentiated. And so we want to invest and scale our go-to-market, both in terms of direct sales and our channel partnerships. And maybe you will see us focus more on areas where we are clearly seeing returns, be it the geographic regions. We care about the 6 main verticals, where most of the momentum is. And within our product offerings, the 5 major areas, where we have clearly defined product with differentiated features, too. But I'm excited at the traction we are seeing. We're getting large wins, and I look forward to executing here.
And our next question comes from Doug Anmuth of JPMorgan.
I just wanted to ask 2. First, as you think about the strong Google Sites growth, [22%], FX neutral. Can you just help us understand some of the mobile search innovations that you think are really driving things here beyond some of these just underlying secular strength, with the particular focus perhaps on the retail channel and just how you're thinking about the opportunities there? And then, second, Ruth, just wanted to go back to your comment on OpEx. Just wanted to go clarify. Were you saying that headcount growth specifically you think will moderate in '19? Or are you talking about overall CapEx spending?
Doug, on the first one, obviously, we have thousands of engineers working on continually launching search improvements. I think, for me, a lot of this has been the clear hard work that's gone into making sure search on mobile works really, really well. Removing friction where we can, constantly working to get the answers a bit quicker and faster and making them more relevant. So to me, it's more a set of continual innovation mentality that we have had in there for a long time, and that's really working at scale.
And then, the specific comment, I think, you're referencing is I was pointing to headcount growth. We are continuing to hire to support growth opportunities, particularly hiring engineers and product managers in Google and continuing to support growth in Cloud. And what I was just trying to draw out was we will continue to hire, but the year-on-year growth rate will moderate there.
And our next question comes from Heather Bellini of Goldman Sachs.
Yes, I had a follow-up to Anthony's questions on Cloud. It doesn't seem like you want to share an update on the revenue run rate. But I was wondering if maybe you could share with us what you're seeing in terms of year-over-year growth rates, in particular, are they growing faster than what the competitors disclosed in their public results? Because maybe that will help think about the pace of growth in your Cloud business. And then, secondarily, I was just wondering if you could give us a sense of the types of workloads, if there's any commonality to the types of workloads you might be running more frequently than not?
So in terms of growth, Cloud does continue to deliver sizable revenue growth, driven by GCP. And GCP does remain one of the fastest-growing businesses across Alphabet. As Sundar said, we've doubled the number of GCP contracts greater than $1 million. We're also seeing early nice uptick in the number of deals that are greater than $100 million, and really pleased with the success and penetration there. At this point, not updating further.
And Heather, I think, maybe specifically a couple of examples, there's definitely, we see clear strength in data management and analytics, so we can take specific -- for example, in retail, or if you take someone like The Telegraph, those very important factors. Application platforms. So our ability to help customers deploy cloud-native applications has been a differentiator of customers like Unity, Ubisoft, et cetera. And multi-cloud ability to run cloud services across clouds on-prem turns out to be very important for global multinational companies like HSBC. So we do see a wide variety of stuff. We are clearly focus on infrastructure being an application platform, data management and smart analytics, and of course, with G Suite productivity and collaboration. So that's the core areas we are investing in from a product and a go-to-market standpoint. And we're seeing great traction there.
And our next question comes from Brian Nowak of Morgan Stanley.
I have 2. Just first, I wanted to go back to YouTube. You had a very strong quarter, it sounds like, on branded advertising and now some of these new direct response ads. I was curious, Sundar, as you think about with an innovation focus, what do you see as being 1 or 2 of the biggest opportunities to further improve the quality or the efficacy of the ad product you provide for advertisers on YouTube from here? And then on Waymo had a couple of milestones throughout the last 3 to 6 months. Maybe talk us through how you see the next 1 or 2 big factors that you're really focused on ensuring that Waymo becomes what it could be?
On YouTube, I still think we are in early days of making sure YouTube is a better platform for direct response. And TrueView for action is still early. We see great traction, but I think there's a lot more to do. And I think we had a set of features, which we launched last year to make sure it works better. But I think there's a lot more to do. In the long run, I think, for me, YouTube is a place where we see users not only come for entertainment. They come to find information. They're coming to learn about things. They're coming to discover, do research. And so being able to match that intent over time in a way that we can bring the right value for our users and advertisers, I think, is a long-run opportunity. And we're taking all the right foundational steps to realize it.
And in terms of Waymo, as you know well, we are intently focused on safety first and ensuring a great user experience, and that's why we're expanding methodically. We are pleased that we've continued to broaden out our service in the Phoenix area and we're focused on expanding both the number of riders and the geographic reach around Phoenix. In addition, we're having conversations with a number of other interested cities, and we are continuing to explore applying our technology for logistics and deliveries and for personal use vehicles and for last mile solutions for cities, so continuing to execute, as we've described previously.
And our next question comes from Mark Mahaney of RBC Capital Markets.
Two questions. First, Ruth, could you just provide a little more color on the R&D expense buildup? Anything unusual on there? Just comment on the cadence of that. And then, Sundar, on hardware, that's -- it's been a multiyear effort. It seems like it's accelerated. There's a series of these new products we tried to do a report on to make sure we understood them. Could you talk about how the strategic and maybe the synergistic impacts that you're seeing of hardware on the rest of Google's business, on the rest of Alphabet's business? And do you think that it's still early days and maybe paint a picture of how significant those synergies could be?
So starting with R&D. The main driver is our ongoing investment in engineers, in particular, in Google, and then, as I said, the sizable increase in accrued comp for Other Bets. And just to build that out a bit more, give you a bit more color, in certain Other Bets, employees are compensated through equity-based programs, and that's because we believe that this alignment of interest is valuable. We do assess valuation on an ongoing basis. And at a minimum, we do a formal valuation assessment once every 12 months or when there's a significant event. And what you're seeing in the fourth quarter is the impact of higher valuation in certain Other Bets. And as we've talked about previously, a goal with the Alphabet structure is to enable us to build new businesses that would make a positive impact and create long-term value. And it's still early days. We're very excited about the opportunities we see. And so what you're seeing is the impact here of valuation. The way we approach it is very consistent with the way startups are typically valued, and that includes technical progress and a range of other items.
And Mark, on hardware, obviously, we are working hard to offer the best Google Experience we can, bringing together AI, software and hardware. And you are right that it does have a lot of synergistic value, but -- at this stage where we are in. The main way we do that today for our core products is by using hardware to drive where the rest of the computing ecosystem is. And so we get a very leveraged effect there. But over time, as we scale up our hardware efforts and do it thoughtfully so, it definitely -- when I look at the kind of experience we can deliver, for example, if you look at something like the Google Home Hub and how it delivers a nice experience across Search, Assistant and YouTube and photos when you want it, you can definitely see the glimpse of the future. And so we're investing to realize that.
And our next question comes from Stephen Ju of Cr?dit Suisse.
Sundar, just picking up on the AI for everyone theme, you've been highlighting at I/O as well as other venues. Our conversations with advertisers suggest that products like smart bidding are becoming a pretty increasingly popular tool to add to their bidding strategies. But how has the pickup been among the SMBs, especially among the local advertisers? Do you think you can target that market without a sales force? And secondarily, as we talk to companies transitioning to the Cloud, there's increased talk of collecting data, dealing data lakes as well as analyzing all that data to help their decision-making process, so from your standpoint running Google, do you feel like the current technology you have at your disposal is sophisticated enough to keep up with all of the needs for you to run the company as you collect all the data from across the Internet?
I think 2 questions on you. First question around using machine learning to help serve advertisers better and be able to reach newer advertisers, SMBs and local advertisers. I definitely think you highlight an exciting opportunity. Whenever we have done work like be it last year or the last couple of years through universal app campaigns or smart shopping campaigns last year, responsive search ads, those are all great examples of where we brought ML. And with that, we made process much easier for advertisers of all sizes and we see an impact. So I think it's a natural extension for us to continue working in that direction, and that will help us reach SMBs and local advertisers better over time. So I do think that's a good opportunity. And on the second part of your question, I want to make sure I understand it. If you're asking about how we invest in our security as a company, I think it's a foundation of how we do everything for the past 20 years. And we always -- we realize a deep responsibility that comes with being stewards of users' data. So everything we design is designed with privacy and security in mind. It's where some of our core investments go, be it securing our data centers, literally the practices we have across the company, the quality and talent in our security teams, and over time, using AI itself to do all this well. So it's a core part of what we do, and we take it very, very seriously.
And our next question comes from Dan Salmon of BMO Capital Markets.
Sundar, in your review of some of the shopping products during the fourth quarter, you [didn't] mention shopping actions. And there were reports there that Walmart decided to leave the program recently. And I think there have been some public comments on social media from Googlers confirming that. So I'd just love to hear a little bit more about that. But maybe more broadly, the traction of shopping actions, and in particular, the price per sale metric that you rolled out with it during the holiday season? And then, Ruth, just a quick one for you. If we could return to your prepared remarks, there were a couple of sort of things to keep in mind that you are highlighting. One was FX going from a tailwind to a headwind. But just before that, you were talking about how new experiences can roll out over time to users. And I just wanted to clarify, were you referencing an experience that's rolling out currently or just generally that, that is a best practice in general for Google?
On shopping, I think we launched shopping actions around, if I remember, March of last year. And we have definitely seen a strong traction there. I think we have seen roughly a sevenfold increase in merchants in the program since we launched it. And just in Q4, we announced new partnerships with Best Buy, Nike, Sephora, as an example. And in terms of Walmart, we have -- Walmart is one of our deepest partners and they remain a strategic partner across multiple businesses for us, including Google Ads. And we have efforts underway to work closer together with shopping. But they are definitely a large partner who continue experimenting, and we'll support them in many ways. But I think, overall, I'm excited about the efforts we are doing in shopping, and you will see us focus more there on 2019. We see users come to Google a lot around key shopping moments, and we want to make sure we invest in that experience to get closer to what they want.
And then, on the second question, we've talked about this on prior calls. We've often talked about the fact that we have been and remain committed to long-term revenue growth through innovation. And the point I was trying to underscore is the timing and scale of the impact that's inherently difficult to predict. And so can be inconsistent from quarter-to-quarter. The main point is we remain very excited about the opportunities for users and advertisers in particular, building off of Sundar's comment, as we apply machine learning to solutions.
And our next question comes from Colin Sebastian of Robert Baird.
Two quick ones for me. First on Project Stream and YouTube TV. Just wondering how important it will be to invest in original content as well as how you might view the rollout of 5G as catalyzing consumer adoption of these services? And then, on the Discover feed, I know that's still pretty new, but curious if you have any color on usage and engagement to date, and if there's any way you expect to monetize that feed in the near future?
On Project Stream, being able to deliver gaming with a kind of real-time requirements, the low latency requirements, it's definitely, for us, it's an important computing advance. We think it'll help us drive the newer computing platforms we are working on. And I do think services like that will be a point of inflection as 5G rolls out as well. So I think it is a virtuous cycle. So we are excited. Early feedback on our Project Stream experience has been super positive, and so we are looking to build upon that. And you will see us do more there in 2019. On Discover, I think, traction has been, for us, we measure user engagement and satisfaction and happiness on anything new we do, and the metrics have been really strong. And we obviously -- we offer the best experience today on our products like Pixel Made by Google products. And we are looking to scale that up to reach more users. But we think we have a strong product there, and I think it's very synergistic to the search experience. And so we are looking to bring the best of both to our users, and you'll see us reach more users in 2019.
And our next question comes from Justin Post of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
A couple of questions. First, looks like Google core margins were down about 3 points and what was an easier comp. So just wondering if you can give us any thoughts on how the core advertising business is doing in there. We know there's a lot of investment in Cloud and hardware and YouTube TV. But just would like to get an update on the health of the advertising business margins and any thoughts on if you'll ever do segment disclosure? And then, the second question is just on the Cloud strategy, there's been a pretty big leadership change. Just wondering if there's any new strategies or new things you'll be doing this year with the Cloud related to the management change? And I look forward to the Cloud conference in April.
Thanks. So in terms of overall Google margins, I think the main point you're seeing in the margins is we continue to see tremendous opportunity across Google, and so we're investing to support long-term revenue and earnings growth. We've talked a lot in this call already about the importance of machine learning, and it is a key component of incremental investment, particularly in CapEx for our technical infrastructure to support the existing businesses, but also the newer ones, and that's kind of flowing through here. We've talked on prior calls that we're very mindful of the fact that CapEx turns into depreciation, which is why I'd single this out. We're continuing to see tremendous opportunity in the ads business, search and ads businesses. And beyond machine learning, we're further investing to continue to enhance the experience for users and advertisers, and that's across mobile desktop and YouTube. So for example, a big priority in 2018 was expanding the availability of content for what we call the next billion user markets, which are, for us, a really important area. We're excited about the growth and the opportunity to deliver experiences across markets. We're also investing to enable more visual ways of finding information, such as photos and videos. And then, we're investing aggressively in our newer businesses within Google, particularly Cloud and hardware, as Sundar has already said. So what you're seeing reflected through in the margins on the cost of revenue side is the impact of the product mix that we've talked about, a big part of that is the ongoing growth in YouTube. And then, on the OpEx side, investing in engineers, in particular for Google and as well as on the sales and marketing side, the increased headcount to support not just ads, but in particular, Cloud.
And on the second question on Cloud. I answered it around Anthony and Heather's question. But to add a little bit more color why, it's the change in leadership, but it was a well-planned transition. And so Diane and Thomas together planned 2019. And the big things you're going to see are continued focus on Global 5000 companies. We are definitely seeing traction with large multiyear contracts, multi-million dollar contracts there. So you'll see us focus there. We'll continue to invest in and expand our sales and distribution channels to meet customer demand. So that's going to be an important area for 2019. But mostly, being highly focused on the 15 countries, 6 industries and the 5 major solution areas that we think will have the most impact and directing most of our resources to towards those efforts is probably something you will see continued emphasis in 2019.
And our next question comes from Ross Sandler of Barclays.
Just 2 questions. First, there's a lot of discussion right now about alternatives to Google Play and Apple's App Store for distribution, and some of the large developers are starting to come up with these workarounds around the App Store fees. So I guess, just philosophically, how do you think about the 30%? Do you think that's the right long-term rate for Google Play? And then, Ruth, coming back to the headcount and CapEx growth moderating comments. So you had expenses growing well in excess of revenue for some time in the core Google segment, and 2018 was the lowest operating income growth since you started disclosing the segments. So are you just flagging this as a change of direction? Is this a material change? Or is this just a small amount of moderation in 2019?
On Google Play, obviously, we do this at scale, thousands of developers rely on it to safely and seamlessly distribute their game to billions of Android users worldwide. And we invest a lot in our infrastructure to continuously make sure their overall experience is safe and results in high engagement and for the developers back. So I think there's a value exchange there and it's been the industry standard. And so I think we'll continue down that path, and -- but obviously, always adapt to where the market is.
And then, in terms of the pace of investment. I've already laid out the focus areas and our commitment to continue to invest to support long-term revenue and earnings growth. And just wanted to put a fine point on both CapEx and headcount. So on CapEx, as I indicated in the opening remarks, we do expect the rate of year-on-year CapEx growth will slow meaningfully. So with the scale of our business and with our focus on user experience, it does require CapEx. We are committed to continue to invest in CapEx to deliver on that. In terms of the mix, we expect to see more of an uptick in 2019 in data center investments relative to servers. But the point which you asked in your question, the year-on-year growth rate will moderate meaningfully. And then in terms of headcount, we're -- I was just trying to make clear that the growth in headcount will moderate somewhat here just so that there's no interpolation.
And our final question comes from Brent Thill of Jefferies.
For Sundar, the cash position has doubled the last 5 years to $109 billion. Yet in the last 4 years, M&A has been right around $3 billion, which is well below your peers. And I'm just curious, that it seems like the core is very strong, but is there hesitation that you're seeing in terms of valuation or other factors that are playing into that relative to what your peers are doing right now?
I think we've always approached M&A as, I think, really, we are always evaluating opportunities. We have a very high bar. And so to me, it's been more about us finding the right fit rather than being constrained by anything in particular. But I do think it's always an important part of our strategy and we have done great acquisitions in the past, things like YouTube and Android were big acquisitions for us. And so we continue to look for opportunities ahead.
And real quick for Ruth. Just the magnitude of spend, I think, goes back to what probably investors were most surprised by. And it sounds like, from your perspective, you don't really look at the margin structure as having any floor, you're just looking at this, as you said, there's tremendous long-term opportunity that you need to make these investments now. I think many are just trying to search for a framework in how you think about this investment cycle we're in right now.
So the reason I started by laying out, I think, in response to the question on margins, where we're investing and how we look at is we are very focused on investing to support long-term revenue and earnings growth. We're very mindful of the CapEx impacts on free cash flow and earnings growth. And so we're trying to get it right. Overinvesting, underinvesting, neither of those works for long-term value creation, but we are very mindful of the pace here and trying to lay out with more specificity how we're looking at the opportunity set where -- and making trade-offs where we can.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Ellen West for closing comments.
Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again on our first quarter 2019 call. Thank you, and have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.