So then to talk a little bit about your customers' inventory levels. One of the big concerns or debates in the financial community at the moment is whether the pickup in memory volumes that I think Micron has seen, is that mostly being driven by fundamentals or is this just potential inventory stocking because of some of the trade concerns? And Sanjay, I think you maybe talked about a bit of both factors in your prepared comments and some potential inventory stocking but also inventory coming down in some important markets like data center. So maybe you can just kind of level set and put those things together and do you think the pickup in your business, is it primarily being driven by fundamentals or how much of this is maybe some of that inventory stocking because of trade concerns?
I think certainly the pickup in business is being driven by the industry fundamentals. I would just like to remind you that in the first half of calendar 2019 because of the inventory that the customers have built or had built up the demand to the producers was low yet the end-market demand for all applications continue to be robust. And now as the customers have worked down their inventory to normal levels, the demand is coming back to the producers. And as a result, you saw in our calendar Q, I mean, fiscal Q4 results our strong growth in DRAM bit as well as NAND. And second half is the demand is back, the customer demand is back, and yes, there may be some level of inventory build in China due to the reasons that I've mentioned by certain customers, but I'll tell you that we do not think that, that inventory build is anywhere close to the kind of inventory build that had gone on in the second half of last year. So nowhere materially close to that level.
So overall, the industry environment in terms of demand return is certainly solid. Certainly, in DRAM, there is still some supply, excess supply with the producers, but the inventory is improving fast. We talked about our inventory actually improving faster than what we perhaps anticipated some time ago and overall we even see some shortages in some leading-edge products, particularly on the DRAM side.
So overall, we think that industry inventory at the producers is being consumed at a rapid clip. The demand trends are back to normal levels. And especially when you look at the trends of through next year, 5G, you look at smartphone average capacities continuing to increase, both for NAND and DRAM, and cloud demand drivers continuing to be solid, new platforms, new CPU architectures being used that allow greater use and higher use of DRAM capacities as well as there are applications driving more DRAM and NAND. So the demand trends, when I look at 2020, I believe that the industry demand/supply environment will be in a lot healthier place. Yes, maybe calendar Q1 may have some cyclicality, but the industry fundamentals overall from demand/supply point of view I think in 2020 will be in a much healthier place.
Another way to look at this and kind of back it up mathematically is if you look at the year-over-year bit growth in the fourth quarter. It's only in the kind of 14% kind of range. So that kind of backs up the idea that this is really about industry fundamentals more so than it is about stocking inventory.
Our next question comes from John Pitzer with Crédit Suisse.
Congratulations on the solid results given the macro uncertainty. Sanjay, I just have several questions just around the guided gross margins for the fiscal first quarter. If you look at the incremental hit you keep getting from IMFT that, that's more than offset by kind of the change in depreciation and yet you're still kind of getting sort of a 400 basis point drop sequentially in gross margin on kind of flattish to up revenue. And I know you guys don't comment about future pricing, but can you talk about other puts and takes around mix that might be negatively impacting kind of the gross margin? And I guess given that the incremental cost of IMFT is probably driven by you taking receipt of the whole joint venture in the month of November, why wouldn't that hit get higher as you go into the fiscal second quarter and have it for the full quarter?
Okay. So yes let me kind of walk through a little bit of the puts and takes. Obviously, pricing is a factor in the expectations around gross margins for the first fiscal quarter. And of course, we don't talk necessarily about forward pricing.
But the second piece is cost. And as Sanjay mentioned, our cost declines for fiscal '20 in total will be kind of high single digits. That's lower than the cost declines we got in fiscal 2019 versus fiscal 2018. And so we are seeing a slower rate of cost declines for DRAM and that's, of course, something we've indicated was coming given the complexities that we face and as we migrate nodes. And as we talked about, obviously, on the NAND side, we're going to have very minimal cost declines as we kind of transition to replacement gate. So those are certainly factors in that. And I would tell you that the first quarter cost declines are very minimal.
The third piece is mix. If you look at the mix from just a move to high-value solutions that, of course, is positive, but what is overshadowing that is the mix of NAND and DRAM. And of course, NAND has a lower gross margin than DRAM. And we will see likely a higher mix of NAND next quarter, which will affect gross margins negatively.
And then as you pointed out, there's 2 kind of unusual items, I guess, in the quarter. One is the change in the useful life of NAND equipment. That will be positive, but more than half of that will be offset by underutilization expenses associated with IMFT. So those are kind of all the puts and takes of gross margins. I think it's likely that it will be a little higher from Q1 to Q2 in terms of underutilization expenses, but it was somewhat in the noise. We might be a little bit lower than $150 million of underutilization expense in fiscal Q1 and we might be a little higher than that in fiscal Q2.
Our next question comes from Mitch Steves with RBC.
I just wanted to have a poke again around the gross margin question that was just asked. But one of the bigger questions I have was just your commentary about pricing getting better, but then you're talking about gross margins going down on a higher revenue base. So if you offset that with depreciation as well, I mean, does that imply that November quarter should be the bottom for gross margins or are you guys implying that February can also be down sequentially?
Well, I think clearly we're talking about NAND getting better. And we are seeing the early signs in DRAM of kind of the fundamentals getting better, demand is coming back, inventories on our balance sheet and on the industry's balance sheets are coming down. Of course, that hasn't gotten completely to where it needs to be. And also Sanjay mentioned in his prepared remarks the market continues to be a bit competitive. And so we'll have to see when that, all those things come together and supply kind of aligns with demand to drive a more healthier market for DRAM.
Our next question comes from Harlan Sur with JPM.
On your fiscal '20 DRAM outlook for high single digits cost reductions versus fiscal '19, is that how we should think about your longer-term annualized cost down profile given the higher complexity, capital intensity that you outlined or are there some impacts from the pullback in utilizations, drawdown of your own inventories and/or maybe a slower 1Z transition that's impacting the cost down profile as well?
We definitely have some underutilization expenses in DRAM. Certainly, we have that built into our expectations for the first fiscal quarter. It may last into the second fiscal quarter. And so that certainly is an impact. But I would tell you that over time, as complexity of these nodes goes up and as capital intensity goes up, the cost declines are going to become more challenging. So the high single digit will probably not be something we can routinely do year-to-year.
And I'll just add that we are certainly narrowing the cost gap in terms of DRAM production cost overall. 1Z node is a good example of Micron's leadership, being the first one to introduce the 1Z node with the smallest feature size in the industry and the result of cost improvement that we are making on DRAM as well as, of course, the high-value solutions that are driving higher mix on the NAND side is a major improvement, 2,500-plus basis point improvement in our EBITDA margins versus the competition compared to the past 2016 time frame.
Our next question comes from Mark Newman with Bernstein.
You talk about inventory down quite a bit Q-on-Q. You gave some numbers on that. Do you have an even more break down on how that compares DRAM versus NAND? And then looking forward to next-gen technology, you commented that it's quite difficult transition to replacement gate NAND. Can you give an update on the timing for that, where you are on the 96 layers for your current generation in terms of percentage of the output and give a little bit more detail on the timing for the ramp of replacement gate.
So Dave will comment on your inventory part of the question, but let me just address your question on the 96 layers. As we have said before, 96-layer execution has gone very well with the company. In terms of yield ramp, 96-layer technology has given us the fastest yield ramp of any other NAND technologies in the past. So we are very proud of that accomplishment and 96-layer is continuing to ramp during the course of our fiscal year 2020. In fact, 96-layer will be the major driver of our NAND bit growth in fiscal year 2020.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks, with respect to replacement gate, we have seen now functionality and yielding dies. We are certainly quite encouraged by that and continue to work on technology and product development. In fiscal year 2020, 64-layer and 96-layer will continue to be the workhorse technologies and our replacement gate technology, of course, will have a small mix in fiscal year '20 and for us as well.
Keep in mind, our first replacement gate node, which will have small production in fiscal year '20, will be a rather limited node because we'll be deploying it across select set of products. It's our second-generation node which will, of course, come in the subsequent fiscal year that will position us well and resume the year-over-year strong cost reductions for us. But basically, the 96-layer will continue to ramp during fiscal year '20 for us.
Okay. So on the inventory question. So we had 143 days of inventory in the third quarter. That came down to 131 days in the fourth fiscal quarter. If you kind of break that out between DRAM and NAND, DRAM was meaningfully below that and NAND was meaningfully above that. I would say in terms of days. Obviously, in absolute dollars, DRAM has more inventory than NAND. I would say, you've got to remember there are 2 reasons why inventory was building for NAND. It was building as we kind of slowed down our supply, but customers were working down their inventory. Now the adjustments we've made to our supply, both in terms of capital spending reductions and in terms of utilization adjustments, we have brought our inventory down pretty meaningfully this quarter. We expect to bring it down again meaningfully next quarter.
On the NAND side, we have elevated levels of inventory, but that's more strategic. What we're trying to do is have some built up inventory in fiscal '19 that we can use in fiscal '20 to support the RG transition because the replacement gate transition will not drive a lot of bit growth. And so in order to support the increased demand next year, we will have to utilize this inventory for that purpose.
Our next question comes from C.J. Muse with Evercore.
I just wanted to hit on your commentary around DRAM and undergrowing the industry in calendar '19. Within that, is that largely driven by Huawei, perhaps more aggressive competitors in certain markets, change in mix? Would love to hear your thoughts on that. And then as we move into calendar '20, what are your expectations vis-à-vis the market for your market share?
So in terms of overall bits, with respect to DRAM growth in terms of revenue, I mean, it has primarily been impacted by the customer inventories that were built up last year for the first half. And our overall DRAM shipments are in line with overall the industry in this regard. And I think what we said is that the industry demand mid-teens and our overall supply growth during the calendar '19 to be slightly below the industry, of course, as a result some of the underutilization actions that we have taken. And of course, there is an impact of Huawei in terms of our overall business. We have said before that compared to the levels that we anticipated before Huawei's placement on the entity listing, our revenue is lower. And of course, we are very much focused on continuing to diversify our revenue base. But yes, I mean, the Huawei entity listing does have an effect on some of our shipments to the customer. I mean, some of our overall shipments in the market.
Our next question comes from Raji Gill with Needham & Co.
You had mentioned that you did see some elevated inventory levels in the lower process node. I was wondering if you can kind of elaborate on that particular comment.
This is really related to some of our overall production and mix. And some of the older nodes have lower demand compared to our total supply available and therefore, that's where we are primarily running underutilization on the DRAM side. So it really is about the overall demand and this is good inventory that will overall will get consumed over time.
Our next question comes from Aaron Rakers with Wells Fargo.
I was wondering if you could help me parse out the CapEx guidance a little bit more in detail. I know last quarter relative to the $9.1 billion you did for the full year, you talked about roughly $2 billion for kind of cleanroom and facility kind of CapEx. Was that the case? And I think on the basis of that, what is that kind of CapEx spend specifically embedded in your fiscal '20 guidance?
Yes. It was a little bit lower than the $2 billion number, but certainly a meaningful part of our spend. And you could probably parse out from what Sanjay said. We expect that number to increase in fiscal '20 and the opposite is we expect the front-end equipment spend to decrease in fiscal 2020 versus fiscal 2019. We'll obviously make another investment in the back end and we're expecting that to be roughly similar to what we're spending or what we spent in fiscal 2019.
Our next question comes from Vijay Rakesh with Mizuho.
Just wondering on the same CapEx line, I know you guys talked about equipment CapEx being down 30%. So looks like close to $5 billion for fiscal '20, just wondering what the split would be on NAND and DRAM.
We don't tend to break that out, but I guess I would just tell you that our plan is to reduce front-end equipment spend in both DRAM and NAND next year.
And our next question comes from Mehdi Hosseini with SIG.
Two follow-ups. We talked about the demand trends are positive, but I want to get a better assessment of how do you see data centers. There has been some conversation in industry that data center demand is seasonal. Some argue that it is better than seasonal. Sanjay, I want to get your view, how do you see the data center demand for both SSDs and server DRAM is tracking? And in that context, I'm surprised with your NAND bit demand projection for next year. This is well below historical trend of near 40%. What do you attribute this NAND demand trend into 2020 which in my opinion is well below trend line.
So with respect to the NAND demand trend in calendar year 2020, I mean, just keep in mind that in calendar 2018 the industry grew by approximately 45%, in calendar year '19 again by about 45% or so, low 40s to 45%. And that then definitely, I mean, when you look at a multiyear CAGR, I think it does lead to calendar year '20 to be approximately in low 30s or in that range, high 20s to low 30s kind of range in terms of calendar year '20. And I think what you have to realize is that with such aggressive pricing decline that had occurred in NAND over 2018 and 2019 time frame, elasticity definitely has kicked in substantially. And as we said, pricing environment actually has started improving in NAND. And some of the average capacity growth that you perhaps would have seen next year actually has been pulled in faster into this year as a result of some of these aggressive price declines that have occurred and have driven the usage of higher capacities in terms of increasing average capacities of SSDs, increasing the attach rate of SSDs as well as continuing to drive higher average capacities in the smartphone market as well. So these are some of the factors that are absolutely playing an important role in terms of our assessment that for calendar year '20, the year-over-year bit growth will be high 20s to low 30s range. Again, keep in mind that we still are a few months away from next calendar year and we, of course, will continue to assess the overall industry demand trend, but this is our latest projection on that.
Your first question was around cloud and let me just point out that cloud definitely demand grew nicely for us on the DRAM side in FQ4, strong demand increase there. And yes, the cloud demand from time to time can be somewhat lumpy. However, overall, demand growth trends on the cloud side continue to be solid. In fact, we see cloud demand consumption, both for DRAM as well as for SSDs continue to be higher than the average of the respective DRAM and the NAND industries. So overall, cloud, again, new architectures, new CPU platforms that are really enabling more channels as well as usage of higher density of DRAMs as well as again, as I spoke earlier, the trend of AI applications, all of this is driving greater usage of memory and storage in cloud. So cloud, we see as absolutely strong. Cloud customers' inventories have normalized and it's back to normal levels. Other than any aspects perhaps in China, as I talked about, of maybe some element of strategic inventory build by certain customers. But overall, the cloud demand trends are solid.
Our next question will come from Ambrish Srivastava with BMO.
Sorry to get back to NAND for fiscal '20 and I just wanted to reconcile the comments you made and I wanted to make sure I'm walking away with the right take away, is that you have limited cost down. And  then you talked about very low gross margin. And you're also selling from already build inventory. So what's the trade-off between all these factors as I compare your profitability in NAND versus competition in fiscal '20?
So I think in fiscal '20, the main focus for us on NAND will be to continue to increase the mix of high-value solutions. I think in mobile, you have seen us increase managed NAND solutions in terms of share gains substantially. And I reported in my prepared remarks on the tremendous progress that we have made with our mobile business. And most of it driven by the progress on the managed NAND side. And we plan to continue to increase that part of the business in fiscal year 2020.
I also spoke about SSDs. SSD was certainly a headwind in terms of share opportunities for us in fiscal year '19. And as we now have expanded our portfolio of NVMe solutions actually have introduced our first NVMe solutions during fiscal year '19 now. We can leverage those solutions to expand our opportunities in fiscal year 2020. And we certainly look forward to resuming gaining share in SSD on fiscal year '20. So I think that those are the important pieces of our strategy of continuing to drive healthier revenue mix of NAND in fiscal year 2020. And of course, we are extremely focused on cost reductions on assembly, test and nonmemory BOM as well which are important factors particularly when it comes to products like SSDs or multichip packages, et cetera. And we are making good progress on cost reductions on nonmemory part of the BOM as well. So these are all opportunities for us in fiscal year '20, but no question that at the die level our cost reduction capabilities will be overall limited in terms of the cost reductions due to the RG transition that we talked about earlier.
And our final question will come from Joe Moore with Morgan Stanley.
Great. Yes. I wonder if you could talk about if your forecasted demand will accelerate next year on the DRAM side. Can you kind of break that down between units and content and just generally what's your expectation for DRAM content for smartphones and servers next year?
I think on the smartphone side, the average DRAM content if you look at it this year, it increased by nearly 25%, slightly above 3 gigabyte was the average capacity. Last year, expected to be in calendar year '19 around 4 and a pretty similar double-digit gains continuing. 5G, if you look at Mobile World Congress, phones that were introduced there were 8-gigabyte and 12-gigabyte DRAM density in those phones. So as 5G phones start selling in the marketplace, some of those phones are already introduced in the market today in some parts of the world and this will continue to build momentum during calendar year '20 and years beyond. Those phones will also require more DRAM. And again, the phones are becoming more and more feature-rich. More AI applications are being built into the smartphones today and rich video and imaging capability and a lot more intelligence behind all those applications. They require more DRAM as well. So looking at next year, we will certainly be seeing continuing average capacity increases next year as well. In fact, in calendar year 2020, if you look at industry projections, average capacity is expected to increase another 20% next year going to something closer to 5-gigabyte per smartphone.
But as I said before, the DRAM is not only about smartphone. It's other applications related to server as well where the average content continues to increase as well as the average content continues to increase in PCs as well with applications such as gaming driving higher need for more DRAM.
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now all disconnect.