Our first question comes from the line of Chris Danely from Citigroup.
Just a question on share expectations. I know in the Analyst Day, you expected the competitive environment to get a little more -- I guess a little more competitive, although it doesn't seem to happen in Q2. Maybe talk about how you expect your share to trend over the next 4 to 6 quarters in light of the competitor coming out with 7-nanometer and then you guys introducing 10-nanometer later on. Do you think you'll maybe lose share over the next 3 to 4 quarters and then gain it back? Or how should we think about things are going to play out?
Chris, it's Bob. First, I would say that during the course of this year, as George mentioned in his prepared comments, we lost a little bit of share in the second quarter particularly in CSG at the lower end small core primarily due to supply constraints. And our expectation is that we'll begin to work our way back in the second half of the year given the capacity we put in place to have more supply and meet our customers' demands.
But stepping back and just looking at the macro environment over the next several years and particularly in the second half of the year on the data center side, what we've indicated is it will be a much more competitive environment. Our intentions are with a -- not a 90% share position, but more like a 23% share position that we have significant prospects for growth across multiple aspects of our business. And our intentions are over the -- over that time frame to continue to grow our data-centric collection of businesses at or above market rates of growth. And that's consistent with what we said back in January. We reiterated it again at our May Investor Day and nothing's really changed from that standpoint.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Seymore from Deutsche Bank.
Okay. So a 2-part question on the Data Center Group. I guess first and foremost, could you just discuss a little bit about the differences between the subsegments? The cloud side was impressively strong in the quarter and it sounds like you think that's going to continue. But the enterprise and government side, I know you said that was China specific, but that was exceedingly weak. Any more color on what's going on on that enterprise side in the current quarter and probably of equal, if not greater importance, the second half looks like you still expect a really big ramp and potentially better than seasonal. What gives you the confidence in the second half ramp in DCG?
Ross, it's Bob. I'll comment and then George will pile on. First, on growth overall, we had -- cloud, I'd still put in the relatively soft category to the first half of the year as the cloud players continue to digest. And our expectations have been and still are that cloud will get a little bit stronger as we go into the second half. And as George mentioned, comms has been low single digits as our customers begin to build up for the transition to 5G, so we expect that growth to probably materialize more as we go into the latter part of this year, but I think more in 2020.
Enterprise and government has been brutal through the first 6 months of the year. Q1 was really soft. Q2 was even softer. And while we don't like it, it's been pretty much in line with how we expected the first half and even the second half of the year to kind of play out. A couple of dynamics. You'll remember last year was really strong for enterprise and government. Growth was much stronger than we expected. Our belief at the time is that that was largely a function of increased digital transformation by CIOs, a favorable tax reform environment that gave them a little more capacity to spend. And we benefited from that tremendously last year.
So the first half of this year, even the second half comps -- our comps are much tougher. And I would say our sense is that CIOs, broadly speaking, are a little more cautious as they go into the second half of the year. And then when you just take -- that's a broad-based comment. And then when you take China into account, China is even worse than that. So our thoughts through the first half of the year and even going into the second half of the year is the E&G environment won't get dramatically better. Cloud will get a little bit stronger and comms will get a little bit stronger in the context of our overall full year guide.
Yes. I would just add that we -- again, we saw enterprise and government down 31% year-over-year. I would say maybe a little bit weaker than even we were forecasting, which is for a pretty weak performance in that group. But in general, I wouldn't add any more to what Bob said.
Our next question comes from the line of Stacy Rasgon from Bernstein Research.
So we have gross margins coming down into Q4, you're probably in the low to mid 58%s. And I know at the Analyst Day, you had sort of given an indication for gross margins in like the 2021 time frame to be around 57% on a $77 billion number. I guess how do we think about the trajectory from where we're exiting this year to the gross margin profile in 2021? Does that imply that 2020 gross margins should be down from obviously 2019 and 2021 should be down from 2020? And then what happens if you actually don't hit your revenue guidance of $77 billion in 2021 because the margin impact is mostly fixed? Does that imply margins come down even more in that case?
I think -- Stacy, it's George. We did say that we think we'll bottom out at 57% in '21. We didn't guide specifically for '20 but implied it would be closer to the 60% range. And I would say, one of the things that's going to help us -- two things that are probably going to help us as we think about 2019 to 2020, one is we're going to see more of the benefit of moving up the yield curve in 10-nanometer, which is pretty painful now, and you're seeing that really in the fourth quarter gross margin.
I would also say though, you're seeing a really pure impact of memory in the fourth quarter as well because they -- we have a grant in the third quarter. So you're going to see a sequential step down just because of the absence of the grant and it just tells you how much the impact on gross margin overall for the DC-centric group has been because of memory. I think memory, if we can start to see improvement on that in 2020 -- and there's some evidence of firming of the ASPs, but probably too early to call that. I think that could also be a factor.
But you're also seeing growth in our adjacent businesses, which have attractive margins. They'll continue to grow into 2020. And like I said, I think largely it's going to be 10-nanometer yield curve benefits, maybe a little bit improving memory and then improving adjacent businesses should be a little more positive than what we're seeing purely in Q4.
Our next question comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri from UBS.
I had a question for George. So George, I'm just trying to figure out the incremental accretion from the sale of the modem business. It doesn't seem like a lot of it is dropping through to the op margin because you're investing more in 7- and 10-nanometer. So I'm just wondering why that would be the case if yields are on track.
Well, one of the things that we talked about, Tim, was trying to pull in as much as possible both the 10-nanometer and 7-nanometer road map because we think the economics of that is more than worth the investment. And really, the investments we're making now are all focused on executing to that. We're going to see more accretion from this deal coming in the following year when we would expect a significant increase in the reduction in sort of the run rate OpEx for the piece that's going out at the end of the year. So maybe $400 million to $500 million this year, but you can probably double that number for next year, which we think will help on the total spending.
And the question is will we need to retain this higher level run rate that we're seeing today for acceleration fully into next year? I think there might be some opportunity there as well. But we're going to -- we're going to invest first in those things that we think drive yield improvement in 10 and product performance improvement in 10 and 7.
Our next question comes from the line of Harlan Sur from JPMorgan.
Maybe just again to kind of step back on the data-centric businesses. On the revised full year outlook, you're still guiding data-centric to be down low single digits year-over-year. Previously, within data-centric, you guys were looking for DCG specifically to be down mid-single digits year-over-year, which implies about 20% growth in DCG second half versus first half. Is that still how the team sees DCG for the full year?
I would say we're still roughly in that ballpark. We haven't really changed our view of the full year.  There may be a little bit that slipped into the first half relative to our original second half expectations on the pull-ins even though it's more of an impact on the PC side that we saw a little bit of that in DCG. So now we're looking to a strong second half for DCG.
Our next question comes from the line of Vivek Arya from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
On inventory, they were up about 12% sequentially in terms of dollars. Now when I look at your second half sales, you're forecasting them to grow 13% to 14% half over half, so it kind of makes sense. But just inventory in terms of historical levels, it's still quite elevated given the macro conditions. So is this all 10-nanometer-related inventory? Just what's driving this? How do you see it trending in the second half? And will there be any impact on the gross margins from any utilization changes that might be needed?
Sure. Great question. And we're watching inventory very closely ourselves. The big bounce this quarter, as you suspected, was really about 10-nanometer within finished goods coming onto the balance sheet. And so there is actually some gross margin benefit, which we began to see this quarter and we'll see a little bit next quarter previously reserved inventory then flowing into the marketplace, so some gross margin benefit from that, and you've seen that in the CCG margins.
We -- yes, normally we'd be up going into the seasonally strong third and fourth quarters in this quarter. I would say overall that we think the adds this quarter, which are all related to 10-nanometer, make sense. I think we feel still that our inventory is higher than we would like in memory, and we will look to bring that down over time. It's a very tough market to bring it down in and then feel good about yourself. So we'll continue to watch that. But that's been part of the pressure on free cash flow has been some of these working capital, particularly inventory impacts.
To George's point, while we're not big fans of growing inventory, we feel great about qualifying the Ice Lake product in the second quarter. And that qualification is the single biggest reason for the step function in inventory from Q1 to Q2. So we knew if we executed on our plans of the Ice Lake client qualification, we'd have a step-function in inventory and we feel good about getting that qualification done and behind us. The implications of that is the higher balance in Q2 versus Q1.
Our next question comes from the line of John Pitzer from Crédit Suisse.
Congratulations on the solid results. Maybe if I can go back to the gross margin from -- at the Q4 level, I'm just kind of curious, given that CapEx has been running significantly ahead of depreciation, I'm kind of curious if there's anything going on on the depreciation schedule, which is impacting the calendar fourth quarter gross margins. And George, to the extent that in the previous question you talked about maybe some tailwinds relative to the fourth quarter run rate next year in 2020, how do we think about the bridge from sort of the Q4 guide of kind of 58.5 to the Analyst Day guide for 2021 of 57, is that all just the impact of 7-nanometer coming on in that year? Or is there some price consideration? How should we conceptually think about that?
Okay, John. That's a great 3-part question. There's nothing unusual going on in depreciation in the fourth quarter. As I said, most of the impact is really related to -- we'll have gotten through all of the previously reserved 10-nanometer products, so you're going to see more pressure on gross margin from the products that are coming into the marketplace while we're still at the low end of the yield curve on 10-nanometer, which is where we are today.
In 2020, how I think about 2020, I think we -- as I said earlier, we think we'll see a benefit from moving up the yield curve on 10-nanometer. We're pleased with our process work that's going on there now. And also, we would expect that memory, which has been a significant drag on gross margin this year, will help us a little bit overall. So no real change. Probably the easiest thing would have been to just go back to say no real change in our outlook that we gave at Analyst Day in terms of the gross margin trajectory over the next few years.
George, the only thing I would add on the depreciation while there's nothing kind of out of the norm, there are 2 fairly big dynamics that happen over the course of the next several months. One is over time, we have more and more of our 14-nanometer equipment that's fully depreciated. So as you know, that's been our engine for a while, and we'll have more and more fully depreciated assets that are at work. That's obviously favorable.
On the flip side, we have -- we talked about ramping 2 fabs and we've had a lot of assets under construction on our balance sheet that weren't being depreciated. So in one sense, you have a drop off from the life of 14-nanometer equipment. At the same time, you're deploying some of the 10-nanometer equipment that we bought previously. So those 2 things underneath the cover at the macro level to George's point, there's not a dramatic change. But underneath the covers there's 2 fairly big dynamics in the makeup of our equipment base and what's fully depreciated versus what's being put into service.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Moore from Morgan Stanley.
You talked about the reasons for being a little more conservative about the second half than you felt 90 days ago, but your second half guidance isn't materially different than it was 90 days ago. So I guess how are you thinking that relative to the forecast? And I guess when you talk about pull-ins, like what is that -- I'm surprised that there is pull-ins at the same that there's shortages. So maybe you can just describe what the behavior is that's pulling revenue into Q2.
So again, for the second half, really for the full year, we're largely seeing the full year as we talked about it 90 days ago. What I think the biggest difference is just how strong you see demand has been and the pull-ins that came into the second quarter leading to a much stronger second quarter where we are passing obviously some of that through with the exception of the pull-ins to the full year. So I don't want to sound like we're going to -- we'll see the normal seasonal bounce and it will be a strong second half of the year for the company.
And I think we're expecting a strong DCG improvement in the second half as they get through the capacity digestion. We think the PC is going to continue to be quite strong. So relative to our forecast, I guess I may be countering a little bit this idea of a weaker second half other than memory has been a little bit weaker than we had expected. ASPs are certainly down more, and so we're anticipating some pain from that. And then of course, some level of demand was pulled into the second quarter, but it's really reflective of a year that is playing out largely as we expected with some upside on PC TAM.
Yes. And I think the only thing that I would add to that is relative to where we were in April looking out to the second half of the year, we still have the threat of tariffs going up for goods coming out of China and the implications of that. And there's still a little bit of -- a little lack of clarity about the implications of the entity lists and how quickly applications for licenses will be received and processed. So I think that the real -- we're kind of $900 million better in the quarter. You took the year up for $500 million. We attributed roughly $400 million to pull-ins. As we go into the second half, we're just at the -- there's still a little bit unknown about what -- how this China thing is going to play out. And that's a big important market for us, and that's probably what makes me a little more anxious.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Ramsay from Cowen.
George and maybe Bob as well, we had heard and continue to hear rumblings of -- and you guys have addressed it at the Analyst Day and in other forums about how you might be price aggressive in certain sectors to try to protect market share. And I wonder if you might comment about how you're thinking about that strategically in your notebook business where you have 10-nanometer product coming online versus in your desktop business where you might be on 14-nanometer for a bit longer.
First, I'd start with, at the risk of repeating myself, a TAM of $300 billion, the largest TAM in the company's history with a pretty decent wind at our back in terms of this insatiable appetite for data and what it means for the products that we build and design. So we view ourselves as having a relatively low-share position with significant opportunity to grow. But at the same time, we know it's just -- we're not the only ones that have seen a data-centric world and it will be a more intensely competitive environment.
And our expectations over time are to protect our market share position while continuing to invest in new prospects for growth. And that hasn't really changed. When you look at that by segment, we're going to be -- on the PC side, we've been protecting our position for the last couple of years. I'd say the competitive intensity on the PC side started probably in the first part of 2017. And during that time frame, we've tried to protect our position while moving end customers up to higher performance products that generate higher ASPs and with that have the capacity also to fight back and meet comps in targeted areas where we need to.
So that's -- how we think about it is big opportunity to grow, large market, protect our position while expanding into new vectors. And that transforms all segments, and we're a little more protective about some segments versus others in those cases, particularly when we're in a supply-constrained environment. So not a whole lot has really changed on that other than we know it's going to be more competitive and we try to take that into account as we've thought about not only our second half outlook but our 3-year outlook.
Our final question then comes from the line of David Wong from Instinet.
Just a clarification of what you had said with regard to restrictions in shipments to various entities in China. Did you say that the net result was actually small in the second quarter? And will there be -- do you expect any meaningful impact on DCG revenues from restrictions and shipments in the third quarter? Or is that going to be small, too?
Again, so it was small in the second quarter. In fact, it was probably a net positive because of pull-in activities. So if you looked at what we were prohibited from shipping versus what was pulled in on things we're allowed to ship where people were concerned that perhaps restrictions would become greater, that was a net positive in the second quarter. We think that dynamic just remains in play in the second half of the year. How much of the demand concerns were met in the second quarter, we'll have to see how that plays out. But our forecast is based on kind of the current state of activity. And as Bob said, we're -- it doesn't mean that we're not concerned or cautious about what could happen if there's a change in policy between now and the end of the year.
Thanks, David. And we'll hand the call back over to Bob to wrap things up.
Thanks, Mark. Thanks, everybody, for joining us. I'd just kind of close where I started. We had a -- the quarter played out much stronger than we expected. Revenue better, gross margins better, spending in line, earnings greater. And therefore, from that confidence, we're raising our full year outlook and kind of feel good about our performance 6 months through the year.
Secondly and just more importantly, we continue to really work the supply chain so we're never in a position to constrain our customers' growth. We've made good progress through the first half. But I think more as we go into the second half, we're just in a better position than we've been in a while. We still have work to do. We're still working with our customers, but we feel pretty good on the supply as we enter the second half.
And then third, our progress on both 10-nanometer and our confidence in migrating from 10 to 7 continues to grow based on execution. So we kind of gave you a 3-year outlook. We consider this the second deposit of that 12 deposit 3-year outlook, and I'd say we feel pretty good about where we are. And we look forward to giving you another update 90 days from now about continued progress momentum on our multiyear journey. So thanks for joining us, and we look forward to talking to you again in 90 days.
Thanks, Bob, and thank you all for joining us today. Operator, can you please go ahead and wrap up the call?
Certainly. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your participation in today's conference. This does conclude the program. You may now disconnect. Good day.