Maybe two if I can. First, Sundar, a big-picture question. It feels like the concept of the ambient computing was sort of prevalent at the Made by Google event recently. It started with sort of a bit of a shift in theme, from what I could tell, at the I/O earlier this year. Can you just talk about what some of the key investments you want to make to capitalize on that opportunity over the medium to longer term, how you think Google and maybe broader Alphabet is positioned to capitalize on that, how it might show up at the product service layer? So I guess maybe a 3-part question of more of a bigger-picture nature.
Thanks, Eric. We are very excited by the vision of ambient computing and evolving that. I think it's a continuity in the sense that, over time, computing should be more intuitive to users and computing should adapt to users, not the other way around. And the foundations of all this is all the work we have done with our computing platforms to date and the successful consumer services and the developer platforms we have built. And I think that's the most of the investments there. Phones will continue to be at the center of ambient computing for the future. So that's another important piece where we are already invested in.
I think as we expand beyond, that's what the Made by Google family is focused on, products in your home with our Nest family of products and wearables, which we do with Wear OS and so on. So supporting that ecosystem, so whether you're at home or on the go or at work, and making sure it works. Our investments in AI across the company, I think, will end up playing a key role, AI and Assistant. I think they will be at the center of making sure we can anticipate what users want and serve them better.
And our next question comes from Doug Anmuth from JPMorgan.
Sundar, you talked about the new neural network techniques, talked about the biggest breakthrough in search in years. Can you just help us understand if that's impacting kind of the advertising and monetization side of the business yet or how that can play out going forward?
Anytime -- maybe I'll answer it as, BERT, which is the name of the technique we are using, and we rolled it out in search now. And obviously, anytime we can better make sense of queries, we can serve users better, our search quality goes up, and people engage, and that's a -- engage more. So it's part of a long set of things we have been working on, but this is one of our bigger breakthroughs in terms of helping improve the search experience and search quality. And then BERT will help us in a certain set of queries. There are many queries which are already working well, but it helps us capture nuance and help understand human context better. And so I would just characterize this as a big improvement, which improves search quality and creates that virtuous cycle by which people engage more. Of course, a lot of times we take the same techniques, and sometimes it makes sense on the ad side and the underlying machine learning techniques, and we'll deploy it there as well.
And our next question comes from Heather Bellini from Goldman Sachs.
I just wanted to follow up on a couple of the comments you made about cloud, Sundar. I was wondering if you could just give us some color on the size of your GCP backlog. And maybe even if you just talk about the trajectory and how that's changed over the course of the last year. And then you mentioned the strength in the uptake of BigQuery. I'm just trying to think through how we should think of the margin level of a service like this versus the traditional compute offerings where you've seen strength to date. And just wondering if we start to see some positive mix shift benefits as some of these premium products start to ramp more aggressively.
Thanks, Heather. Overall, I know we gave some visibility into our cloud business, and we'll continue to do that periodically. And the momentum has been great. Obviously, ever since Thomas has come in, he has continued to invest across the board. He definitely focused a lot on scaling of our sales partner and operational teams, and it's playing out well in this business. It's important for you to been asked many data situations as possible and get those wins which accrue over time. And so we are definitely seeing the momentum. Analytics is a huge area of strength for us, and it's an area which Thomas has a lot of expertise in as well.
And BigQuery is such a strong product, so it's a natural area we are seeing strength. And my sense is as we get -- if I look at the TAM, the percentage of TAM for which we were eligible compared to 2 years ago to last year to now, that number is shifting aggressively due to either completing our product feature set or completing some of the certifications we need. And so I think there are several strong forward-looking indicators and look forward to sharing more at the right time.
And our next question comes from Mark Mahaney from RBC Capital Markets.
Can I just ask you to draw a little bit more out on Google Maps? I know that's for Marketing Live earlier in the year that, that seems like that's now at a stage where it's going to be better integrated into the, I don't know, the purchase path or whatever, you're making it easier for small businesses to tap into what should be really nicely qualified leads. Just talk about the pace at which that -- the monetization of that or just the ad opportunities will be offered to small businesses.
In general, local is an important area for us, and we are continuing to invest in building experience that connects merchants, advertisers and users. Google My Business has been our major effort there. Actually, millions of businesses are -- reach and engage both through search and Maps. Specifically, in GML, we announced that we'll expand local campaigns. I presume that's what you're talking about. It's still early. And in general, we want to make it easier for advertisers, particularly SMBs, to come to Google and be able to reach users across our set of owned and operated properties, so be it search, be it YouTube, be it Discover, be it Maps, and that's the way we envision that. And -- but small and medium business is a big area of focus, and Maps represents a big, long-term opportunity for us.
And just to add on there, given you referenced back to GML, and I think we talked about this last quarter as well. Our view is that the products, they were introduced to GML. This year, like in previous years, they rolled out in phases. They're adopted over time, and so we will don't view the potential impact from this year's slate differently than the impact from products that were launched at previous events. And so just to kind of keep that in perspective.
And our next question comes from Lloyd Walmsley from Deutsche Bank.
I wanted to ask another one about a new product you guys announced earlier this year at GML, and that was really Google Shopping and moving that across some of the new different properties like YouTube and Image Search and Discover. Can you give us a sense for where you are in that migration? Kind of over what time frame should we be thinking about that? And then maybe just elaborate a bit on the long-term vision of moving shopping functionality into properties like YouTube and how you think that experience will evolve.
In general, I think it's a great opportunity for us. We see tons of what I would call commercial user journeys across Google. Obviously, search is an important area. Image Search, YouTube, Maps are all great services by which I think users come with varying degrees of commercial interest, looking to discover and, at times, transact as well. So we've started thinking much more holistically about what are those experiences and how can we make that better. That involves helping improve the discovery experience, but when people are interested in it, being able to be -- making it easier to transact. So the equivalent of being signed in and being able to pay when you want and then of course fulfillment and logistics. So we are thinking through the end-to-end experience across all our services and are investing, but I see the user interest, and it's an area where I think we have significant opportunities ahead.
And again, these are still earlier stage. And it's -- we're excited about the longer-term impact, but just to again make it clear, we're just still in the earlier stages of testing.
And our next question comes from Brian Nowak from Morgan Stanley.
I have 2. Ruth, I think you mentioned that desktop search might have been one of the contributor to growth. Can you just talk to us a little bit about what types of products or verticals you're still seeing growth? I know desktop search is really impressive given how old -- how long that this has been around. And then, Sundar, we've got all the exciting changes going on with search become more relevant, et cetera. Can you just talk to us about some of the KPIs that you monitor, what you're seeing when it comes to query volumes, click-through rates, overall response time? What are you seeing that sort of give you confidence that you're continuing to get more and more relevant results for your users?
So in terms of desktop, I described it as a solid contributor to revenue growth. And what we see is that desktop does remain an important form factor for certain more complex tasks. So things like planning vacations or assessing insurance options, what we see is users continue to go back to desktop, notwithstanding the growing utility of mobile. And I think one of the things that we've been very focused on is that innovations that benefit mobile also enhanced the desktop experience for users and advertisers.
And then in terms of obviously we've been -- over time, we have developed a very comprehensive metric for measuring and tracking search quality, to get a sense of search quality and how user satisfaction is through search. But to give you a sense of -- we continue to take that work deeper. We realize users sometimes do searches through sessions, understanding what is their satisfaction across the session, what is their engagement, are they getting at what they are looking for. Those are all some of the deeper work we are undertaking. And also understanding by vertical how we are helping users. There was an earlier question around shopping and commerce, that's an example of the kind of vertical and what can we do to make that experience better. Health as a vertical, another vertical in which we have a whole Google health team focused on understanding the in-depth experience that would give better experience overall in search. So very comprehensive effort, and we are constantly looking to do deeper and broader at the same time.
And our next question comes from Colin Sebastian from Baird.
I have 2. Sundar, there's clearly a lot of innovation happening at Google, but I'm wondering how you think about the increase in scrutiny and oversight possibly impacting your ability to explore new services or new markets over time and ultimately to remain competitive. And second, Sundar or Ruth, we don't often ask about the display network. But just wondering given all the concerns around privacy, ad block and the like, how do you view this business strategically as part of the overall ecosystem?
On the first part, we consistently want to work and build products that benefit users and support the ecosystem. And so our products and services benefit consumers, small and medium businesses, advertisers, and overall, they help reduce prices and expand choice. And so that's our underlying approach, I think, which is what helps us engage and explain to regulators, and we'll continue to do that. I think there are also many new areas of opportunities available for us. And in many of these areas, we are the new entrant, and we create competition. And sometimes, the competitive pressures can lead to concerns from others. And so that's part of what's going on as well. But the other area is, in addition to developed markets, we are investing deeply in our next billion users, so markets like APAC continue to be big, long-term opportunities for us as well.
And our next question comes from Ross Sandler from Barclays.
Ruth, just if you rewind the clock a little bit when we entered this year, you had called out how some product changes may cause year-over-year growth rates to fluctuate from time to time. And we haven't heard that in a couple of quarters. So as we look out towards like 2020 and beyond, do you feel like a lot of the product queue is in a good place as far as search and YouTube are concerned and that this product changes might be a little bit more subtle going forward? Or could we return to having more meaningful impact in the future? Just any color there. And then on the third quarter, the Asia region, the growth rate was solid but a tad lower than the prior trends. So anything notable to call out on APAC?
So in terms of the first question, look, I think as Sundar and I have talked about, we're pleased with the strength of the business that you've seen here again in the third quarter. And as we've said since the IPO, we don't manage the business to maximize quarterly results, and we'll always do the right thing for the long term. We're very focused on investing for the long term, and I tried to make it clear in the opening comments that, as a result, quarterly growth can vary and have varied. And I think to your question, our view is that quarterly growth around the rates you've seen since the beginning of the year, for us, underscore the strength and the vibrancy actually in our business. And that's particularly true at our size. In the last 12 months, we've generated over $150 billion in total revenues. That's about $25 billion of growth in the last year, and we are continuing to invest in long-term opportunities. And -- but I would make the point that we do keep a lens to the long term.
In terms of your question about geographies. When we look at performance on a fixed FX basis around the globe, pleased with the performance again in the third quarter. You aptly pointed out year-on-year growth in APAC in the third quarter was a bit lower than the second quarter. That primarily reflected slower growth in the network business, and that was in part due to policy changes. It also reflected the fact that the launch of the Pixel 3a was in the second quarter, which boosted the year-on-year growth rate in the second quarter. But I think also implicit in your question, at 26% year-on-year growth on a fixed FX basis running at about now $7 billion in quarterly revenues, we're really pleased with all that the team is doing in the year-on-year growth rate.
And our next question comes from Dan Salmon from BMO Capital Markets.
Sundar, maybe you could give us a little bit of an update on the Discover feed, that's the new product that we featured in the past and I know a lot of users are getting more use out of. You gave us, I think, some updates on monthly active users or DAUs in the past. Any update there would be great or maybe any additional color on sort of how the total amounts of usage goes on there, as that's obviously been featured to users a little bit more. And then second, maybe just a follow-up for Ruth, Sundar spoke at length about your investments in renewable energy earlier. And maybe keeping with the theme of the earnings call, you could help us understand how that is or maybe is not helping drive efficiencies across the country -- or across the company and your operating cost overall?
Discover is a product we are very excited about. I think it completes the other half of search. Search is -- we do our mission for our users and be helpful when they come to us looking for information. Discover is the other half, where we are proactively understanding what might be most helpful or relevant to them and getting it to them. And we definitely are focused on product quality and making sure the product is actually helpful to users. And when they engage with it, they find it useful. And it's definitely, we are making progress. Our investments in machine learning are helping as well. We are definitely able to better anticipate and give them information proactively. So over time, I see it as an important area for us, and it's done and closed. It's part of our search and knowledge efforts. And as we do that, you can imagine you may have started a query in search, and it's a session. Maybe you're looking to take a trip somewhere or you're researching a particular topic, we may be able to continue that session and the user journey in Discover, and that creates a virtuous cycle. So these are -- you want to be helpful to users in a way that makes sense for them more continually, and the combination of search and Discover helps us do that.
And in terms of your question on sustainability, we're proud of the work that we're doing. We do think that it's a valuable part of what we do, and we do consider the impact on the business and on the financials. It really cuts across every element of what we do: what we're doing in our technical infrastructure; the way we're thinking about our products, as Sundar talked about; what we do with our facilities; what we're doing with AI. And I think it was about a year ago we talked about how we were applying machine learning to energy efficiency in our data centers, and it did have a net benefit. It helped us reduce energy consumption, not only positive for sustainability but was an efficiency effort. Sundar talked about the fact that we are investing -- recently announced that we are purchasing -- making a meaningful investment in renewable energy part of our commitment to offset 100% of our electricity use with renewables. And in our view, this is catalyzing further investments in renewables. That is going to have a modest short-term increase in cost, but we think it's beneficial to catalyzing the overall growth in traditional energy. So there are puts and takes, net-net, we are proud of the work across everything that we're doing to support sustainability.
And our next question comes from Brent Thill from Jefferies.
And our next question comes from Stephen Ju from Crédit Suisse.
Sundar, I was wondering if you can put the quantum computing advancement into some sort of perspective. I mean the compute needs for Google has to be exponentially higher versus when you first launched. So we're wondering if this helps you get your arms around that ever-increasing compute need. And further, I think you'll find that investors are as impatient as you guys are for progress. So can you talk about what kind of products or services this will help you create that you otherwise wouldn't even think about doing before?
I mean we're incredibly proud of the work that the team did and excited about that advancement in the whole industry. I think in general, obviously, we have relied on advances in computing to be able to do what we do. And when we look ahead, we definitely see being able to drive the pace of change here fastest is an important need for us as well as, I think, a source of competitive advantage. As Moore's Law effects have diminished, I think we are looking at a variety of approaches to make sure we can continue doing what we need to. And in that, this is an important tool in the arsenal. While quantum will take many years to really start making a difference, we want to be at the cutting edge of driving it. I do think over time for sure, cloud itself, we do see a lot of interest from cloud customers particularly in cutting-edge verticals about quantum computing. And so that's an area where I think we'll participate in as a business. And more importantly, applying it across other verticals we are in, be it health as an example, I think, will be where we will deliver value in the long run.
And as much as we're extremely excited about the long-term implications for quantum computing, part of your question there about near-term computing requirements, given our outlook in particular across Google, we do expect to see ongoing demand for compute investments to support our growth particularly for machine learning, cloud, search and YouTube. And the primary driver of CapEx does continue to be our expectations for compute requirements, so investments in technical infrastructure as we talked about today.
Our next question comes from Brent Thill from Jefferies.
Sundar, just on investments in GCP, you're in a really unique situation having both infrastructure and productivity applications. Can you just walk through how you prioritized the 2 big buckets? There's a lot of different ways you can go in GCP. And just want to follow up with Ruth. You'd alluded to some GC -- some G Suite pricing changes, and I know there were some prices that were changed earlier in the year. And I was just curious if you were referring to that price change earlier in the year or if there was something new.
I mean you're right. I mean these are 2 big buckets, and we treat them that way. Obviously, we talk a lot about GCP. But G Suite continues to be very differentiated. And we just announced a new leader, Javier Soltero, coming in with lots of experience to turbocharge this area as well. And in general, there are many G Suite customers with whom we are having GCP conversations and vice versa. So I think, in general, given we have a big go-to-market effort, the breadth you have allows us to have more conversations and engage through many different paths in the organization, so it's very synergistic as well.
And in terms of the G Suite pricing, I was referencing the pricing that we announced back in April. It's all outlined in our blog post. Our view was it was the right time to increase prices given the ongoing functionality and tools that are included within G Suite. And as I said, what we're seeing here, as an addition to the benefit from the price change, we also continue to have nice seat growth.
And our final question comes from the line of Justin Post from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I think I'll ask on YouTube. Could you talk a little bit about your high-level OTT viewing strategy? Obviously, subscriptions are growing. And maybe give us an update on how your YouTube subscription product is doing versus expectations. And then on the paid click growth, it decelerated 18%. Anything to call out there especially related to YouTube? Any change to coverage going on or anything we should know about?
Subscription is an area we are definitely excited about. We are pleased with our option so far across both YouTube Music and YouTube Premium. They both -- they are now available in 71 countries, up from 5 markets at the start of 2018. So we are definitely scaling that up, and we are seeing great traction. YouTube TV is also doing well. I think we just announced that PBS is coming to YouTube TV in July. Last month, we announced YouTube TV is now launching on select Amazon Fire TV devices. So there is definite -- the user satisfaction on the product is very high, and so we're focused on continuing our expansion, building out a great service and building awareness for the service. So overall, I think engaging users with premium offerings on YouTube is a focus for us. And the efforts, while early, are definitely showing strong traction.
And then you asked about click growth and the trend there. The biggest driver affecting the click trends continues to be the growth of YouTube engagement ads. As in the first and second quarter, the rate of YouTube click growth decelerated in the third quarter. That does continue to reflect the changes that we made in early 2018 to really improve the user and advertiser experience. And as we've talked about on prior calls, that did have an impact on click growth. But as we've also talked about, they weren't related to -- those changes in 2018 were not related to policy enforcement actions at YouTube. They had a negligible impact on YouTube revenues, so not a read-through.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Ellen West for any closing remarks.
Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again on our fourth quarter call. Thank you again, and have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating, and you may now disconnect.