Hope all is safe and well with everyone on the team there at Alphabet. Two questions, if I can. One, on the comment with respect to direct response advertising on YouTube, would love to get a little more color on how direct response advertising as ad units continue to evolve and perform and how advertisers are using those ad units as part of their broader advertising goals. And then maybe, Ruth, for you. On the comment on expenses, I just want to understand a little bit of how much of what your messaging on expenses is efficiency gains that you were aiming for in 2020 before we got to COVID-19 versus elements of the cost structure that you're reexamining as a result of the pandemic.
Eric, thanks for the wishes. We, on YouTube direct response, we've definitely seen traction there. I think an area where it really for example, is app installs. That's a great example of it. Gaming is another good example of it. So to -- and we are working on iterating and making the formats work better so that it applies to more context as well. But in general, I think businesses are learning to adapt. Obviously, we've had great success with Search. And so we're bringing a lot of those learnings and we are sharing it with our customers. And so we expect to see more traction there over time.
And on your second question, I like the way you framed it. Yes, we do have efficiency efforts that we started that we had going as we enter this year. But as a result of what we're seeing in the environment, our view was that we should really double down on those. And so when we go through the various areas that I mentioned, we had started the year with an expectation about really optimizing head count around the various areas. What we've determined is we're going to, at this point, slow the pace of hiring. To be very clear, we are continuing to hire, but we are slowing the pace of hiring. And that's helping as we're driving a deeper look into how do you optimize within each area.
The same is true, for example, in some of the comments on marketing, we are continuing to invest in marketing. As you know well, sales and marketing line, the majority of it is head count-related, and we do continue to invest here in ads, and in particular, in cloud. As it relates to the marketing component, namely ads and promo spend, we did reduce it relative to our plans in the beginning of the year, and we continue to have a healthy budget for ads and promo, particularly in digital, to support many business areas. But as with the other areas of investment, we're really focused on optimizing across products and services. And with physical events canceled for much of the year, marketing spend is also reduced. And so that's another example. With machines and servers. We've been focused on efficiency of the fleet for some time now. This is giving us the opportunity to push that even further.
So we're looking at the operating environment and saying we should continue to lean into the efficiency programs we can. It does help us free up some resources for the growth areas that continue to be a priority, but it is an accentuation of where we were.
And our next question comes from Doug Anmuth from JPMorgan.
One for Sundar, one for Ruth. First, Sundar, you just talked about how once the crisis has passed, the world will not look the same. I'm curious if you can just elaborate a little bit more on how you think Alphabet comes out stronger on the other side of this downturn. And then, Ruth, maybe taking the question on expenses a little bit further. Does this give you any more opportunity to be even more disciplined or diligent on costs on the other side as well?
Thanks, Doug. It's a good question, and we are thinking deeply about it as well. In general, I would say, the highest level of opportunities across everywhere, we see businesses thinking deeper about the shift to digital. And that's true across marketing, cloud, in every place we see that trend. And so part of this is making sure our investments deliver value with respect to that shift. So if you look at advertising, people who in the past may have debated things like how do I get virtual showroom-ing, now, are really thinking about it. People who may have been hesitant to shift their budgets do -- are looking through moments like this and trying to get all that working better. Cloud is an obvious area. Every company has been thinking about digital transformation, but they are asking the questions deeper. For example, if you have data centers, there are fixed costs through something like this. And you learn going through a moment like that, and you're thinking about the opportunity harder. So across everything we do, be it Search, be it YouTube, be it Play, be it Cloud, I think we are investing to capitalize on this long-term opportunity. And I would say, overall, on Alphabet as well, when you look at investments like Waymo and Bing, you can imagine, in the future, these things working well, can play a significant role. And even in the limited areas of [Ingesan], we clearly saw its potential through a moment like this. So we're betting on those big trends.
And to your other question, if I understood it correctly, you're asking about the durability of some of the efficiency efforts. I think that the way I would answer that is after a decade of growth, there have to be opportunities for added efficiency, and we've been focused on that for some time. But painful times like this put a spotlight on an urgency around taking -- making sure you're focused on the levers that you have and, hopefully, those instill the right kinds of health metrics, et cetera, against what you're managing. So I would say that the intent most certainly is that these are durable investments to ensure that we're operating as effectively and efficiently as we can be. And I just need to reiterate, and Sundar and I have both said this, we remain committed to investing for the long term. So we're not compromising where we need to invest for long-term growth. We're trying to make sure that each dollar of investment is well managed.
And our next question comes from Heather Bellini from Goldman Sachs.
Great. Ruth, I have 2 questions for you, actually. First, I wanted to thank you for the color around the growth you're seeing as you were exiting the quarter in the ad business. And there's been some signs from different partners or different companies that ad spending, while still down considerably, has actually improved a little bit, maybe some green shoots from the declines that you might have been referencing at the end of March. Any chance you can give us a sense of the type of growth you've been seeing for the first kind of 3, 4 weeks of the quarter, just kind of just to help level set us. And then just in regards to the provision you mentioned in G&A related to credit deterioration. Is there a chance you could tell us the amount of that provision? And do you expect to have to do this again in the second quarter?
Thank you for those. So in terms of ads revenue, as I said in the opening comments, for our ads business, a key signal to monitor is macroeconomic performance, which has tended to be correlated with ad spend. And I think it's premature for me to comment on the trend. In terms of what we saw in the first quarter, as I said, for Search and other revenues, they were up 9% year-on-year for the quarter. But in March, revenues began to decline and then ended the month at a mid-teens percentage decline in year-on-year revenues. And then with YouTube, we had strong revenue growth until late in the quarter when trajectories for direct response and brand diverged. And as I said, direct response does continue to have substantial -- had substantial growth throughout the quarter, while brand began to experience a sizable headwind starting in mid-March. So by the end of March, total YouTube ads revenue growth had decelerated to a year-on-year growth rate in the high single digits.
And then for the second quarter, so far, I think it's premature to gauge given uncertainty in the environment. And a few weeks, obviously, is not a quarter. So in such an unprecedented crisis, I would not want you to extrapolate from just a couple of weeks. That being said, the decline in our search and other ads revenue was abrupt in March. And although we're seeing some early signs at this point that users are returning to more commercial behavior, it's not clear how durable or monetizable that will be. So based on our estimates from the end of March through last week, for Search, we haven't seen further deterioration in the percentage of year-on-year revenue declines. For YouTube, direct response has remained strong. However, we've seen a continued decline in brand advertising, and it's really too early to add more. I think the main point, though, is a few weeks, obviously, is not a quarter. And given it is such an unprecedented environment, I would not extrapolate from these comments for the full quarter.
And then I'm sorry, you have the second question on the...
The G&A -- sorry, that was very helpful. And then just the G&A that you mentioned, the credit provision that you said you took. I just was wondering if you could share the amount. It might be in the Q later tonight, but wondering if you could share with us the amount on the call.
It will be in the Q later -- it will be in the Q later tonight.
And our next question comes from Michael Nathanson from MoffettNathanson.
I have one for Sundar and one for Ruth. Sundar, people asked you about your priorities. You talked about it. But I wonder, if you could back and think about what this crisis will do to the other side and maybe for reorienting of your priorities. So perhaps where you would shift spend in the long-term to maybe take advantage of where this is going.
And then, Ruth, we appreciate the color on YouTube. Just want to dig in some more. If you can give us any sense of YouTube geographies. Is there any difference by change by geography? That's really helpful, too.
In terms of overall priorities, I would say we've always taken a long-term view through -- on thinking through the arc of where things are going, and our deep focus on AI is an example of that. And we've been convinced for a while that those trends will play out in the long term. And so if anything, through moments like that, the strong foundation we have built allows us to continue to be able to invest in our long-term area. So AI is a good example of it.
The shift over time on computing to ambient computing is something we are going to be deeply committed to and continue to invest there. Cloud and productivity software for businesses of all sizes is a deep area of investment. And so the thesis still remains. So we continue to focus anywhere we think the actual work we are doing is based on deep technology, deep computing, deep computational scale, is the kind of investments we think still stand the test of time through things like that.
Beyond that, we are actively looking at how user patterns are emerging. So for example, e-commerce is an area, and you saw us respond through this with the changes we announced on our shopping property and going for comprehensiveness there and with new leaders in place. We're going to be making sure we work on the user experience there. And so we are looking at shifts, be it video conferencing with Google Meet and G suite. And adapting and investing in those areas as well. So that's how we're approaching it.
And then in terms of the geographic breakdown for YouTube, we haven't broken that down, although I think, as you know well, we have a breakdown for the major regions around the world. And to give you a little more color there in mid-February, revenue growth across the business began to decelerate in APAC. Although as I noted, the decline in APAC was more muted just given the uneven impact of COVID and the nature of our business across the region. And then the impact in EMEA was first evident in mid-February with a steeper fall off in March. And in the second week of March, we then saw results in the U.S. as well as other Americas fall off shortly. But nothing more specific by product.
And our next question comes from Brian Nowak from Morgan Stanley.
I have two. The first one, Ruth just to go back to your comments around the early signs of improvements in behavior in Search. I know it's early and don't want to over extrapolate, but just any more detail on the types of behavior you're seeing of which verticals or which categories or which geographies where you're seeing sort of the first sign of green shoots on the Search side.
And then Sundar, just to go back to your comments about the shift toward digital opportunities or digital transformation. Maybe talk to us about, as you sort of look back over the last couple of years at what you've done on the SMB side, and what are sort of 1 or 2 of the key hurdles where you see you really need to invest and build more comprehensive SMB products for post recovery?
Maybe I can give color both on the SMB and a bit on that side, too. On the SMB side, it's an area we've been investing for a while, and obviously, we have assets both across AdWords, Google Maps, Google My Business and, obviously, providing them with G Suite and the tools to get their business running. So I do think we have a lot of touch points. But the focus has been simplifying it, making it more of a one cohesive, easy experience, making sure it works well from mobile, that there is a truly lighter-weight AdWords experience so that they can get onboarded quicker. And so reducing the work they need to, and also, over time, bringing technologies like AI to just make it all much simpler and seamless for them. And it's going to be a continued focus for us and especially scaling this up and making sure it works internationally well as well. We have clear metrics and targets internally, and we are aligning the teams better to get there. And you will see us do more.
On the ad side, a question -- to your question about maybe I can give more qualitative cover to what Ruth said earlier. And we -- the good thing about search ads and direct response on YouTube as well, but search primarily, is that it's an extraordinarily effective system. It's a transparent system. You have a very clear sense of ROI. It's very measurable, highly cost effective. And so we have always seen, and we saw this in 2008 as well. People respond in the short term, but the recovery is also fast when it comes back, and so it tends to work. It is very diversified, not just geographically by different verticals. And even through moments like that, we do see businesses responding to demand shift. And so we see through our system if people suddenly are looking for office furniture or even pajamas, the system response, right? And so you see the dynamic nature of it. I mentioned earlier, people are really thinking about the shift to digital. So Philipp and our ads team are super engaged with our customers, helping them think through the opportunities through moments like that. I gave an earlier example. If you're thinking about cars and you've been hesitant to do virtual car showroom-ing, now is the time you're beginning to have those conversations in a deeper way.
There are budgets which are shifting in certain cases. Some of our large customers, maybe they've spent a lot of money on live sports. That is clearly on hold. So they are looking to shift some of those budgets into opportunities they see. But having said that, there are large sectors of the economy which are affected, things like travel and our large partners and customers are impacted. And so we clearly see the impact of that, and that's the color Ruth gave as well.
And our next question comes from Brent Thill from Jefferies.
I'm curious if you could just give us a little more color across SMB and Enterprise, any common threads that you saw between those 2 segments?
Maybe -- we have had tremendous momentum on G Suite. And if we can -- all of Google works this way. Products like Gmail, Google Docs, they're built from the ground up to really help people be productive and collaborative in a distributed work environment. And so we are clearly seeing traction there. Google Meet is seeing great traction. And I gave -- I mentioned some user momentum there. But we have more announcements coming up, including later this week. And so we are seeing tremendous traction and engagement on G Suite. On Cloud, the shift to digital has been a deep trend. And if anything, people are really engaged on it. I earlier talked about, you can imagine if you're a customer and you have data centers, these are fixed costs when you go through moments like this. And so people are really looking at opportunities there. And so our teams are super engaged. But I do want to acknowledge, maybe -- the small businesses across the world are deeply impacted. As a company, we've announced several efforts to support small and medium businesses, and we are going to be deeply engaged with them. But I think it's a tough journey we are all on, and we look forward to working with them to help them through this.
Our next question comes from Dan Salmon from BMO Capital Markets.
Sundar, I wanted to return to those long-term initiatives that you walked through earlier and the 1 that was most close to your core business and the changes that you -- were announced this week for Shopping. Could you explain a little bit more about the reasons for making those changes and expanding the free listings or creating the free listings, and what drove you to make that decision now?
And then a related follow-up for Ruth, same question essentially. But as we think about the financial impact of such a change, I imagine this is one of those things which may qualify as causing maybe some variability in the quarter-to-quarter rate, but something that benefits all parties over the long term, I think, is how we've often visited these sorts of changes. But any color you could add on sort of the near and the long-term impact of the Google Shopping changes would be great, too.
So going through a moment like this, it's very clear, part of what makes Google work well is people come across a diverse range of needs. And that's true for Shopping. They spend time discovering. And comprehensiveness really matters. That's how we can have a great user experience. And so as we've been thinking about the space, we realized, and this is our organic search works, for us to truly give that comprehensiveness and the quality of experience, we need the widest catalog possible. And then we are good at ranking it and providing -- and matching users to what they're looking for. And so it is -- it made a lot of sense for us. And just looking through the range of experiences people were seeking through the COVID pandemic validated it even more. And obviously, we have been executing really hard there with new leadership in place. And so we saw the opportunity to go back to our first principles and improve the comprehensiveness there.
One of the tricky things about when you do that is making sure you don't have spam and you're managing and giving people good quality experiences. And that's where our deeper partnership, be it with PayPal and other providers, so that we get the quality signals and really improve the experience as we improve comprehensiveness. So both of them are going hand-in-hand. And as we've demonstrated with Search, when we improve the organic experience, the advertising experience also gives an opportunity and the system works well. And so I'm really excited about this change. It is still early, and -- but it's been very positively received. And you're going to see us enhance the experience in this area deeply.
While we talk about Shopping, another area where we are investing and building the right foundation is with Google Pay. And we have great leadership there as well. We've been executing well over there for the past year. And the growth on Google Pay has been strong. And so being able to bring all of that together, along with strong players like PayPal, et cetera, will help us give great experience for our users here.
And in terms of your question about the financial implications of the effort, there's really not much to add here today. I would just say -- reecho Sundar's comment, we're excited to have Bill leading the effort. And as Sundar said, at the outset, 1 of the priorities is creating sustainable financial value, and we have a leader who has a demonstrated track record of doing that. So we're excited about what he is building here with the team.
And our next question comes from Justin Post from Bank of America.
Great. Appreciate all the advertising updates in March. Just wondering, your cloud growth was obviously quite stable in the low-50s. Any impact in March on workloads or a slowdown in the new customer pipeline? And then maybe, Sundar, if you could talk about what be the benefit for cloud as we get to the other side of this, more work from home, or just other things and secular changes in cloud that might come about from this.
Overall, on cloud, the interest and the momentum remains strong. We are obviously making a lot of progress both across GCP and G Suite. And we find our offerings are getting deeper, and we are really helping customers from a deeper standpoint. So we see overall momentum. There are cases where even though the deal trajectory is the same and we have the wins, things are taking a bit longer. Naturally, as you would expect, our customers are impacted through moments like this, too. So I would say time to closing some larger deals are impacted. But companies, if anything, all the way at a CEO level, are thinking about the shift to digital in a deeper way. And I think that's a longer-term trend we are excited about. Obviously, consumption gets impacted, depending on the sectors which companies are in. And so that has some correlation with the general underlying performance of that sector. And so that's something we'll have to wait and see how it develops. But the teams are doing well, and it's an area where we are committed to the course we are on and investing deeply for the long run.
And you asked about kind of Q2, nothing to highlight there. Just to reiterate what Sundar said, we're really pleased with the Q1 performance for both GCP and G Suite, and the dynamics affecting cloud are obviously very different than those from ads. And just to build on Sundar's comments with a little more on G Suite and some of our opening comments. In this work from home environment, what we're seeing is significant interest from governments and companies looking for work-for-home solutions. So just to add one more example, Cambridge Health Alliance is a U.S. health system with 140,000 patients. And they relied on G suite to support their staff and caregivers during COVID-19, helping them connect across hospitals, health centers that are from home. And it's just yet another example of how we're able to be present, helpful, useful in this time.
And our next question comes from Kevin Rippey from Evercore ISI.
One for Sundar and then one for Ruth. Sundar, the question for you really relates to the resiliency you're seeing with the direct response piece of YouTube. Like, are there specific factors? Or is it a question of mix of advertisers there that's sustaining the growth?
And then the question for Ruth, you highlighted that this has given you an opportunity to refocus on cost discipline. It looks like that the capital returns by way of buyback will remain quite strong in the quarter. Has this affected your thoughts on buybacks and capital returns going forward?
Maybe stepping back, I would say we are overall seeing strong momentum on YouTube. People are turning to YouTube. Our watch time has increased across the board. People are also looking for authoritative news content. Viewership on YouTube has increased significantly compared to last year, too. So in many ways, through the pandemic, people are using YouTube, and the trends are global across North America, EMEA and Asia Pacific as well.
On direct response, I do think -- I think people are -- it's a journey, and people who have been investing or seeing that it is cost effective. And so over time, more people are looking at it. Our sales teams are doing an excellent job of helping our customers understand the opportunities there. And so being able to bring all of that to bear. In the case of app campaigns, we have done it with universal app campaigns. So we've just made it easier as a customer, not to think about whether you're trying to do this across Search or YouTube, and bring the simple holistic solution. So all of that is impacting. I mentioned gaming earlier. When you think about things like unboxing and product reviews, those are natural home for transactions as well. Now I earlier mentioned about all the work we are doing now on commerce. All of that, I'm looking forward to those integrations coming into YouTube and working better as well. And so those are some of the longer-term opportunities. We are working hard to get the experience right and building the right foundation for the future.
And then on your second question on capital returns, we believe a share repurchase program for us, appropriately sized, is responsible in the current environment based on our capital allocation framework and our cash balance. So at the beginning of the year, I indicated that we expected to repurchase shares at a pace at least consistent with the fourth quarter on the remaining authorization, and that remains our view for the second quarter.
And our final question comes from the line of Mark Mahaney from RBC.
In terms of the maybe less worse or somewhat positive trends at the end. You mentioned this recovery or modest move up in consumer commercial search queries. Have you also seen a small improvement in advertiser interest in running campaigns. I think you said both of those factors kind of deteriorated in March. One of them came back. Did the other come back, too? You also see advertisers starting to come back.
And then secondly, the YouTube result in the March quarter was phenomenally strong given what happened in the month of March to YouTube. Is that a comp issue? Was the comp much easier? It sounded like January and February could have been up strong 40% year-over-year. So is there any color? Is that just comps, easy comps? Or was there something that fundamentally changed that caused that kind of material acceleration?
So as I tried to be really clear in my response to Heather's question, I would not extrapolate from my comments for the full quarter. It's early, just giving you an early read, and there's really not much more to add than what I indicated. So nothing more to add there. And then in terms...
Maybe just reiterate what Ruth said earlier and I said, that search tends to -- people respond to changes in search faster, brand trails. So brand is maybe slower to change, both on the downside and the upside, and search is much faster to adapt as well. And so I think that's worth keeping in mind. But overall, look, we see a vibrant system. Advertisers are definitely very engaged in looking at it. And we are seeing active conversations between our teams and our large advertisers where they're trying to understand the demand shifts and how they can respond. And so overall, I see the -- both from users, users that are engaging with Google, YouTube and our core products and services. And while, obviously, there's an impact on the economy and we are not immune to that, the engagement from advertisers across our products and with our teams has been very robust.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session for today. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Jim Friedland for any closing remarks.
Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you again on our second quarter 2020 call. Thank you, and have a good evening.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you may all disconnect.