Sanjay, David, congratulations on the solid results. Sanjay, if you think back 90 days ago when you gave guidance for the May quarter, there was a lot of uncertainty around the pandemic, and you guys guided accordingly, in hindsight, extremely conservatively. I think your comment on the call last time was that you're building inventory, so you're assuming that your customers are building inventory. I guess as you look to the August quarter guide, was there a similar methodology used to inform this guide? And I guess, specifically, there's a lot of consternation in the investment community about data center demand, and you seem to be arguing that in your fiscal fourth quarter, it remains strong and you expect it to remain strong in the calendar second half. I'm wondering if you could just share with us why you think that and why you're not as concerned as some perhaps in the investment community about inventory builds?
So specifically with respect to data center, pre-COVID, we expected 2020 to be a year of strong growth in cloud, again, with all the trends building around AI and that needing more memory and storage. We expected healthy demand for pre-COVID in cloud applications. And of course, with COVID, as we discussed in the last earnings call, certainly, some of the trends got pulled in. Work-from-home economy as well as e-commerce, gaming, video streaming, all of these drove strong surge in demand on the cloud front.
As we look ahead at the second half, of course, given the total COVID environment and uncertainties around COVID around the globe, we basically have limited visibility. Yet, we do believe that cloud demand in the second half of the calendar year will continue to be healthy for us. We work closely with our customers in terms of understanding their inventories. We understand what their demand trends are. And from what we can see, customer inventories with respect to cloud are in a healthy place. And of course, there are other parts of the market such as mobile phone, where there are other considerations such as geopolitical considerations as well as related to COVID as well, where customers may have built up some additional inventory.
And in mobile, in particular, you saw in China that how in April, post-COVID within China, the demand went up, surged up for smartphones. So some of the customers may be preparing for -- as the consumer comes back, given the low point that the world experienced in March, April time frame, customers want to be prepared to supply the smartphone demand to them as well. So overall, it's a mixed picture with respect to the inventory on the customer front, cloud inventories are in decent shape. Mobile, I would say, is somewhat in anticipation of demand as well as managing to the supply chain consolidations due to COVID and some geopolitical considerations as well.
So overall, I would say, when we look at fiscal first quarter, the environment is similar to what we had experienced in FQ3, FQ4. And of course, our best assessment is baked into the guidance that we have provided to you.
Our next question comes from C.J. Muse of Evercore.
I guess a question on gross margins. How should we think about mix, particularly DRAM, as we move into the August quarter? And I guess, would love to hear, as part of that, what implied cost downs will look like? And really just trying to understand the nice step up you're seeing, how much of that is mix versus cost down versus perhaps other?
So well, let me step back to Q3 just for a second. So gross margins obviously expanded in the third quarter as well. As I said in the prepared remarks, I'd say that, that was the pricing environment in both DRAM and NAND combined with just a richer mix of higher-value products, which obviously carry with it better gross margins. From a high-value solution perspective, I think we see that again in the fourth quarter that is helping drive an improved outlook for gross margins for the fourth fiscal quarter. You know, C.J., that we don't telegraph pricing and cost out for future quarters. But suffice it to say, we take both pricing and cost reductions into account. And obviously, the combination of those are pretty favorable.
The other thing I would say is in the third fiscal quarter, we did have some expenses associated with COVID-19, both in terms of just increased spending on our part to manage through some disruptions that we had early on. And then on top of that, we did have to move around the back end production. That did increase our tariff expense in the third quarter. So those things, we wouldn't expect to happen again in the fourth quarter, which is helping also on the gross margin front in the fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from Blayne Curtis of Barclays.
I'd like to add my congrats. Just on CapEx, seems like this year, there were some concern it that may be lower at $8 billion. I guess when you look at next year, I don't know where your starting point was. But I was wondering if you could walk us through some of your moving pieces. You talked about 5G as being the big tailwind. That makes sense. I'm curious what you would highlight that you're taking in account for next year on the other way.
Yes. I mean the one thing to keep in mind is, so CapEx spending this year had a fair amount of construction expense. And actually, we drove the front end equipment expense down quite considerably on a year-over-year basis. Sanjay said in the prepared remarks that it was down more than 40% in both DRAM and NAND. So we cut back pretty heavily on the front end equipment side this year.
Next year, we would expect some of that to come back, in particular, we're going through a full rotation into our second-generation replacement gate that certainly will drive some CapEx increases. And offsetting that, we'll have to look at construction and see what directionally we want to do there. I'd say we haven't firmed up the CapEx plans quite honestly for the year. As you know, we've maintained a lot of flexibility around CapEx. We take a hard look at the demand profile of bits over the next few years, and we kind of manage the front end CapEx accordingly to make sure that we're staying aligned with that. So over the next couple of months, we'll continue to refine our outlook over the next year or 2. And I think we'll be able to give you a better picture when we have our fourth quarter earnings announcement.
I would say, when we looked at, coming in pre-COVID levels, on the CapEx front, for front-end equipment, and now that we look at it now, it certainly has been cut back. And our expectation is that will impact kind of our bit supply in the calendar fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from Harlan Sur of JPMorgan.
And congratulations on the solid execution. Last earnings call, the team highlighted the supply production shift in mix from mobile to server DRAM to service the higher demand from your data center customers. Given the outlook for stronger data center demand, are you guys keeping the production mix more heavily weighted towards server DRAM? Or are you already starting to shift part of your DRAM production mix back to mobile?
So we, of course, manage our mix on an ongoing basis. We assess customer demand expectations and make judgments regarding managing that mix. So yes, like you noted, we had shifted some of the supply from mobile toward the server applications. And at this point, we continue to make -- study how trends are evolving. And we think we are in a good position with respect to managing our mix. But if some changes are needed, we'll, of course, revert to making those changes in the future.
Our next question comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri of UBS.
Sanjay, you talked about Huawei, I think, twice or maybe 3 times. And I know you've been reshipping under the licenses, and the new restrictions are really on ASICs, not on standard products. So is that comment really more around the fact that this is sort of the last extension of the commerce licenses, and so you won't be able to ship to them in another few months? And can you sort of quantify how much is your Huawei exposure right now?
So thanks for asking that question. Just to be clear, the foundry replacement on entity list, we had applied for licenses, and we secured those licenses for mobile and server shipments. And we do not supply into the networking side of the business. We never sought that license. So the entity list placement that had happened several months ago did impact some of our outlook, but we have been operating under the licenses that we have already received. The comment that I was making today is really related to last month's action by commerce department, which will go into effect sometime next month. And as a result of that action, we are already starting to see an impact in our fiscal Q4 as our customer reacts to the actions by the U.S. And quite frankly, impacts related to Huawei are still unfolding. We expect some of the impact to Huawei, yes, related to the foundries, but it affects their potentially overall considerations on managing their business, managing their supply chain. And we expect some of these impact to continue in FQ1 and beyond as well.
And then this is compounded further by changing inventory strategies at customers as well as market share shifts that happened between the smartphone players. So as far as we are concerned, you know that we have improved our revenue diversity. We have significantly expanded and strengthened our product portfolio. And we have good design and activity with all key players, particularly with new products that we have introduced, such as UFS3.1, LP5, DRAM and multichip packages. So we continue to work with our customer ecosystem to mitigate the effects of this. But the particular comments that you heard us talk about on the Huawei front really relate to the actions from U.S. government that have -- last month that have impacted the customer reaction, the Huawei reaction to those actions and impacting our outlook in FQ4.
And then I guess, just how much of revenue was it maybe in May, Dave?
In the May quarter, the FQ3 quarter, that did not -- the action announced last month did not -- action announced by the commerce department last month did not have an effect in FQ3.
Now suffice it to say that we didn't list them as an over 10% customer, so you can make the assumption that it was below 10%.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Moore of Morgan Stanley.
I wanted to ask about customer inventory. I want to revisit that. To the extent that customers are wrestling with pretty unprecedented potential supply challenges, do you think they're building up buffer inventory to deal with that? I mean, we've seen single earthquakes in one region caused that behavior in the past. Now we're dealing with rolling outages across multiple continents. Do you think customers may be building inventory? And if so, do you think memory is sort of less or more impacted than other things from that? And I have a follow-up.
So what I can tell you is that Micron itself in our supply chain operations has focused on making sure, given all the considerations around the globe with all the uncertainties around COVID and COVID containment and COVID spread, Micron itself and its supply chain operations is increasing the inventory for raw materials to make sure that we are well prepared to meet our customer demand. So this trend of higher level of inventory, elevated level of inventory is -- it's been talked about, and it's common in the tech supply chain. And with respect to our specific customers for memory and storage, so as I mentioned earlier, so yes, some customers may have built some inventory given their considerations, their concerns around supply -- potential supply chain disruptions that may occur due to all the COVID-related uncertainties. As well as I pointed out, some of the customers in the mobile may have built some inventory, given U.S.-China trade tensions and the regulations.
So the thing is, these are unprecedented times, uncertain times, not just for us or for the memory industry, but for our customer ecosystem as well. And customers' inventory strategies are changing. They are adapting as they themselves see how their market trends are evolving and how they want to best address their own inventory position as well. So this is the changing environment. We continue to work closely with our customers, and we make adjustments as appropriate. And key is to be adaptable and to be agile. And I think we have shown over the course of the first half of this calendar year that we have been really running our operations with tremendous amount of adaptability and agility and continuing to produce healthy results.
Great. And then in terms of the strength that you guys are seeing in cloud in the second half, would you differentiate it all by geography? I think you mentioned China being stronger, but is it any different in China versus the rest of the world in cloud?
We're not going to break it down here between China and rest of the world. But overall, when we look at in totality, we continue to see healthy demand trend in cloud in the second half of the year. And of course, cloud, when you look at long-term trends, I mean, long term, cloud is still actually in early innings, and long-term trends for cloud are strong because AI as well as 5G, 5G driving more intelligent devices at the edge, growing more data opportunities, it's really the virtuous cycle between cloud and intelligent devices at the edge. And then industrial IoT and everything around autonomous and robotics, all of these trends point to growth at the edge as well as in the cloud. So long-term trends continue to be healthy. Will it ever be a little bit lumpy here or there? Certainly, it can be. But the point is that long-term growth drivers are solid and secular in nature for cloud.
Our next question comes from Mitch Steves of RBC Capital Markets.
So you guys mentioned 2 things on the call that I wanted to double-click on. So the first one is you mentioned that some of the shipments that's semi-capped didn't come in on time. So is this enough, in your opinion, to kind of impact the price of memory? I'm not looking for specific numbers, but was the shipment miss impactful enough that you think it's going to hurt supply enough to move the price? And then secondly, just high level, any comments on the U.S. government kind of incentivizing U.S. manufacturing? So we got TSMC coming to United States. And any impact you guys think it will have on you guys in the future?
So regarding the equipment piece that you asked, let me be very clear that Micron did receive its equipment in time because our equipment deliveries were rather early in fiscal Q3 toward our 1z technology ramp in DRAM and, of course, other aspects on the NAND front as well. So we did not say that equipment deliveries were delayed for us during FQ3. However, it is well-known and has been talked about in the industry that given the various challenges due to COVID, such as logistics and transportation-related challenges as well as supply chain challenges, some of the equipment deliveries have been impacted in the industry. And yes, for us, in the future, it is possible, given the challenges of COVID, that some of our deliveries in the future may get impacted. But in the past, we have been in good shape overall with respect to our receipt of equipment, again, because timing of most of that equipment delivery was such that we were able to actually escape some of the potential challenges in this regard.
So from an industry point of view, if equipment deliveries get impacted, which have been talked about, there have been reports, equipment suppliers have talked about some of that as well, then obviously, that impacts technology transition capabilities, and therefore, it can impact supply, perhaps some with supply growth somewhat lower than pre COVID expectations due to the difficulty in making sure that the equipment are delivered on time as well as equipment install and equipment ramp is happening smoothly, given all the travel considerations involved as well.
So yes, to the extent that affects the supply growth and lessens the supply growth, it obviously impacts the industry supply and demand environment. We have talked about that the demand also due to COVID in certain pockets certainly has been less, particularly those pockets related to COVID. So -- and we don't really comment on the pricing, but obviously, supply has an important role to play on the pricing front.
Your second piece of the question regarding possible U.S. incentives for semiconductor manufacturing, let me first say that we are pleased that the U.S. administration as well as the Congress is considering incentives for U.S. semiconductor industry. This just goes to highlight that U.S. semiconductor industry is extremely important to our economy today. Semiconductor really forms the foundation of the economy of the future and also highlights the recognition of this importance by the officials in Washington, D.C. And really, it's important that U.S. maintains its global competitiveness and innovation capabilities. So from that point of view, we are pleased that there are these consolidations, the bill that is -- that has been put together. Of course, a lot of details still has to be worked out and the bills have to be approved. So we will continue to monitor this.
And from the point of view of memory, I think important thing is that cost and scale in memory are extremely important considerations. Micron, in this regard, actually has a well-diversified footprint of front-end manufacturing across the globe. You know that we have fabs here in the U.S. in Manassas, Virginia, as well as in Utah, and state-of-the-art, best-in-class R&D facility in Boise, Idaho as well. And of course, we have R&D and manufacturing for memory in Asia as well. So we will continue to monitor these trends, but important considerations, our scale, cost and ROI on any investments is important. It's not just about government incentives. It's about managing the business in a healthy fashion, keeping in mind ROI considerations. And above all, it's extremely important that supply growth is managed in a cost-effective fashion but also managed in a fashion to not disrupt the industry, to certainly not disrupt Micron's supply plans and make sure that supply factor is aligned with demand CAGR. So while we welcome these incentives for growth of U.S. semiconductor industry and innovation agenda, we will continue to monitor this in a very disciplined fashion before we make any decisions in this regard.
Our next question comes from Chris Daneley of Citigroup.
Just a question. Can you just talk about the linearity of bookings during the quarter? Did they sort of build all quarter? Was there some volatility in there? And then you also mentioned that mobile and data center were the strongest end markets. Were both of those stronger than expected?
So linearity bookings was pretty -- I would call it pretty linear through the quarter. No surprises. And the mix -- of course, as we said, data centers showed good strength through the quarter, and mobile was a bit weaker than perhaps we were thinking coming into it, but just in terms of linearity. But in general, I would say, actually a fairly linear quarter for us.
Our next question comes from Mehdi Hosseini of SIG.
Most of the good questions have been asked. I just have a follow-up. I'm just wondering, Sanjay, what would it take for your customers to feel comfortable in signing multiyear -- by quarter, rather, contracts? I remember when supply was tied back in 2016 and '17, the industry was highlighting the longer-term contracts associated with enterprise customer. I think that has changed. And in that context, how do you see (inaudible) coming back and be a more (inaudible) part of the memory industry?
So Mehdi, you were breaking up a little bit. However, your question is a good question. And of course, we -- as you know, our customer base is extremely well diversified from automotive to data center to PC to smartphones and networking and industrial and consumer customers. So customer requirements with respect to discussions around supply and from us, they vary. Some of the customers are managing it on monthly basis, some manage it on quarterly basis. And with some customers, we do have supply agreements that extend for years time frame. Of course, certain pricing discussions, et cetera, I mean, are not part of these contracts. They tend to be around supply, and discussions around pricing tend to be on an ongoing basis. Auto is an example where the contracts can be multiyear contracts, long-term contracts, so it really varies from market to market. And you know that the technology and product mix continues to change as well. So I think we want to be careful in terms of the length of the contracts that we manage with the customers. And we manage, I believe, the diversity of our customers very well.
And our customers value our supply. They are valuing the product portfolio that Micron is delivering. They are recognizing that we are the only company in the world that have NAND, DRAM and 3D XPoint and the ability to bring innovative products and solutions to them with a mix of technologies in them as well. And this really positions us uniquely. So our discussions really regarding longer-term nature of product road maps and supply considerations, we win all of these various aspects and are built around the road maps as well. So things do change in this business. And therefore, multiyear contracts are more in the market that are auto market where more legacy nodes are required to be in production for longer terms. But the parts of the markets where technology and products are moving fast, it's not about multiyear contracts there, but varying length of contracts depending upon the end market customers.
Our next question comes from Karl Ackerman of Cowen.
It's great to see the improvements in your SSD segment, both client and enterprise. First, what sort of percentage could QLC drives represent as a portion of your overall SSD mix next year? Could it be 25% or more? And I'd appreciate hearing your perspective on the development taking place in enterprise SSDs. On one hand, your U.S.-based competitor has been adamant they're going to gain significant share in enterprise SSDs this year. Yet merchant controller manufacturers do enable cloud providers to design their own in-house enterprise SSDs rather than just relying on off-the-shelf SSDs from OEMs. So I was hoping you could just provide the opportunity that you see in enterprise SSD this year versus peers. And how you see that playing out in the next 12 to 24 months, particularly as some of the new technologies that you're introducing and providing, such as PCIe 4.0 becomes more mainstream.
Thank you for asking the question. We are very pleased with our execution in SSDs. As we noted, that record quarter for us in SSDs and really solid sequential growth in SSDs. And this is happening, as we had said before that during calendar year 2020, we will be expanding our portfolio of SSD solutions, introducing NVMe solutions for clients as well as data center markets. And we have said before that as we bring out those new solutions, as we qualify them with those customers, those NVMe solutions, it will give us an opportunity during the course of the year to gain share, and this is what has been happening during the course of this year. With our strong performance in SSDs, we actually have been gaining share, yet, our share is still relatively low. And as we continue to bring out new products in the future, and several are underway and several qualifications are underway as well with our customers, we will have ongoing opportunities through the course of next year as well in terms of driving for profitable share gains in the SSD market.
And regarding QLC that you asked about, we are really pleased with our execution on the QLC front as well. We are shipping QLC SSDs in the consumer markets as well as we have product offerings that will be having -- drive future opportunity for us on the value side of the PC, on the OEM front as well. And QLC SSDs are also being used in read-intensive applications and replacing 10K HDDs as well. So you see there are multiple end market applications and opportunities for our SSDS. And we are already more than 10% of our total NAND consumption with respect to QLC, and this presents a good opportunity for us. And we fully expect our SSD mix to continue to increase as we bring out more new products over the course of next several quarters. So yes, I mean, QLC as a mix of SSD percentage will go up for us going forward.
And let me just add that QLC is obviously an opportunity that instead of 3 bits per cell, it has 4 bits per cell. So obviously, once done right and you really have all the BOM costs taken care of on the product side, it gives you lower cost and, therefore, improved profitability opportunity as well. So we are certainly focused on increasing the mix of QLC. At the same time, TLC will remain vast majority of the market for a considerable period of time.
Our final question comes from the line of Mark Newman of Bernstein.
Congrats on strong numbers today. Just as a follow-up question on the data center segment. There seems to be -- I mean it sounds like everything you said stays very upbeat, quite bullish on data center demand remaining quite strong. There seems to be some worries in the market, particularly around some investors of hyperscalers inventory have been increase slightly. And I think the worry is stemming from what happened in '18 with the cuts in orders in late 2018, which continued too much of 2019. So my question is how has the communication changed with the data center at the hyperscalers? Are you having more frequent and closer communication with them to determine -- trying to get a better idea of what the inventory levels are? Or otherwise, how can you help kind of soothe those fears that data center demand is going to remain stronger for longer, as we hope it will?
So first of all, I would say on the inventory side, pre-COVID, data center customers as well as other customers largely had inventories that had returned to normal levels. And certainly, supplier inventories were at normal level as well pre-COVID. And the COVID environment, work-from-home environment has driven strong surge in demand on the data center front. And as we mentioned, we expect demand trends to continue to be healthy in the second half for data center as well.
In terms of inventories in the data center market, yes, while certain customers may be carrying high levels of inventory, again, for the reasons that I had mentioned earlier, related to their own supply chain considerations as well as changing environment with respect to the demand. But the point is that compared to 2018 or 2019 environment, customer inventories are really at a much better, much healthier levels. This is not like a 2018, 2019 and situation, even if certain customers are carrying some higher levels of inventory, again, given the uncertainties around COVID.
And the other point I would say is that while COVID does give us lower visibility and does bring about uncertainty, not just for us but for our customers as well, cloud is an area where the long-term demand trends, as I mentioned earlier, are secular in nature overall. So memory and storage, given the kind of application that customers -- our data center customers, hyperscalers are working on, those are requiring more memory and more storage. So the longer-term trend continues to be healthy.
In the near term, yes, I mean, COVID does have unprecedented amount of challenges and uncertainty in the entire tech ecosystem, and we are doing our best to continue to work with our customers. Our relationships today, since you were asking about those, are certainly a lot closer than they were in the previous time frame. I would say that even hyperscale customers have become somewhat more sophisticated in terms of understanding the memory dynamics and improving their own supply chain operations. So it's really a 2-way relationship. We do work closely together with them.
Having said all of that, of course, our visibility cannot be perfect in this area. We continue to focus on working closely with the customers, understanding the requirements and planning our supply chain accordingly. And what also helps is that the markets are quite diverse for us. I mean, yes, cloud is a strong driver of growth for the business, but also we are well diversified with strong mobile footprint as well as PC and between DRAM and NAND. And as we talked about, diversified into the gaming side with new gaming consoles coming in, needing more DRAM, twice as much DRAM, the new gaming consoles. So diversity of the business is certainly a helpful factor for us to manage through some of these uncertainties.
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.