I wanted to dig into the competitive and the financial implications of the 7-nanometer delays that, Bob, you mentioned. So on the competitive side, by the time you come out with 7, TSMC is planning to be on the 3-nanometer node so will still be a generation ahead. So what's the market share implication of that?
And then related, on the financial side, what's the CapEx and gross margin implications and even pricing implications if you stay on 10-nanometer longer next year? And I guess the bigger question that a lot of investors would have is, at what point Intel should just consider outsourcing a lot more to foundries so that you can keep in line with the state-of-the-art and manufacturing technology?
Yes. Thanks, Vivek. I mean, first, our primary focus is on ensuring that we're delivering leadership -- an annual cadence of leadership products each and every year for our customers in a predictable manner. So what we talked about today is a strong lineup for 2020, 2021, 2022 for both client and server. And we feel very good about that lineup. And our expectation on 10-nanometer, much like what we're able to do on 14-nanometer, is to get another node of performance within that -- within 10-nanometer in and of itself. So we feel very good about our product road map through 2022.
That being said, as we think about that next-generation of products in late '22 and '23 and beyond, we need to make sure that we continue to deliver strong performance. And our priorities in the ideal world is leadership products on our process technology, so we capture the economic benefits of IDM. But the focus will be leadership products. So to the extent that we need to view somebody else's process technology, and we call those contingency plans, we will be prepared to do that. And if we do, there's lots of moving parts, but the economic implications in the event that we decide to move to somebody else's foundry, and with our scale, how do you get ASPs in line with our cost, continue to deliver leadership products so we capture attractive ASPs and to reduce the amount of capital that we have to deploy to build a foundry on an older node or on a last gen kind of process node.
So in the aggregate, for the last couple of years, with the real focus on product leadership, we've been engaging with the ecosystem in a much more holistic way. We've been designing our products and advancing our packaging technology so that we have much more flexibility to decide if and when we will use our fabs or somebody else's to deliver that annual cadence of leadership products. We feel very good through '22 time frame, and now we're evaluating the optionality that we have on '23 and beyond.
Vivek, let me just comment on your question around what we're going to see -- what we might see next year. Next year is still going to be as it was when we talked about it last in May of '19, still going to be largely a 10-nanometer with some 14-nanometer year. And the dynamics there are as we're coming into it with having moved a little bit further along the yield curve, as we've seen more demand for 10-nanometer products in 2020 than we had expected. So we're not going to update '21 at this time, but I think we're more concerned about what the global economy is doing than where we are on 10-nanometer.
Our next question comes from C.J. Muse with Evercore.
I guess a follow-up question on the 7-nanometer delay. I guess curious how should we think about the implications for CapEx and required capacity adds at 10-nanometer and 14-nanometer. And then just to circle back on the comment around contingency plans after '22, considering your first data center CPU will launch in first half '23, are you suggesting that, that could be found out and not be built internally at Intel?
Well, I think the first part of your question, in the -- with 2022 being, in essence, a full array of 10-nanometer products, the expectation is, all else equal, a little more 10-nanometer spend and less 7-nanometer spend, provided we decide to continue to do all of our production inside. In the event we decide that we're going to leverage third-party foundries more effectively, we would have a little more 10 and a lot less 7. And that's kind of the optionality that we've tried to build in as we evaluate the future of Moore's Law, invest in technology development leadership. In the event we're not there and there's a better alternative, be prepared to take advantage of it.
Our next question comes from John Pitzer with Crédit Suisse.
Sticking on the same topic of 7-nanometer. Bob, if you could just help me understand, yields are 12-month behind where you would expect them, but the product ramp is only 6. If you could square that circle, that would be helpful. But more importantly, you had multiple sort of pushouts of 10-nanometer. You're identifying this 7-nanometer pushout today. What confidence level do you have that this is sort of a one-and-done issue and it doesn't turn into a repeat of 10 where you kind of had multiple periods of pushouts?
Thanks, John. I mean, first, product schedule slippage of roughly 2 quarters, while process we expect now to be roughly 4 quarters. The difference of the gap is driven by a couple of things: one, a buffer in our planning process between process and products to make sure that we don't -- minimal disruption on customers because of process; second, as I've mentioned in the prepared remarks, die disaggregation and advanced packaging gives us the ability for a given SoC to do some stuff inside and some stuff outside and, therefore, further compress the product delivery in light of process slippage. So that's why we've been able to be confident in a 6-month product ship slip, even though process was moving out 12 months.
In terms of -- I think your second question was about we've seen this movie before, maybe. And I think the importance of our many lessons coming out of 10-nanometer, one of them was how do we ensure that we have contingency plans in the event that our advancements in process technology, as it gets increasingly complicated, do not play out the way we'd hope, how do we make sure that we can continue to deliver leadership products for our customers on that annual cadence.
So I'm sure things won't play out exactly the way we want. We think we've dialed in 7. But at the same time, what's different is we're going to be pretty pragmatic about if and when we should be making stuff inside or making outside and making sure that we have optionality to build internally, mix and match inside and outside or go outside in its entirety if we need to. And that's kind of one of our learnings coming out of 10 is, in the event process doesn't move along as we expect, let's make absolutely sure, with advanced contingency planning and real milestones, that we can glitch the best we can to leverage somebody else and not slip product schedules in light of process complexities.
Our next question comes from Ross Seymore with Deutsche Bank.
I'm going to stick with the theme and ask about the 7-nanometer as well. I guess, Bob, it's great to hear that you're being -- you're saying you're going to be more pragmatic about internal versus external. But it seems like contingency plan 3 years down the road is how the external option is being treated. I think investors are frustrated with how long the misexecution on the manufacturing has happened. Are there steps where, instead of being a contingency plan, you actually start making the external side the primary source before 2023, obviously, on the design side more than the revenue side? And maybe a follow-up. If 3 to 5 years down the road, the 20/80, 20 external, 80 internal mix, do you think that changes?
Let me -- maybe I'll flip those around. Over the last couple of years, we've been talking about, as we expand our capacity, evaluating more holistically when do we use third-party foundries rather than do everything ourselves. And we call that engaging in the ecosystem in much more holistic ways for a variety of different reasons, so we don't have to build everything ourselves as the capital associated with each node becomes a bit higher. So in general, I would say, for planning purposes, we've been engaging with the ecosystem much more. And all else equal, I would expect that roughly 20% to be a little bit higher as we focus on growing the business.
Your first question in terms of planning then, we have -- we feel like we have a real solid product road map, again, for the second half of this year, for '21 and for '22, and that we'll do it on our existing 10-nanometer that's ramping faster than we expected. It yields in line with what we expected. So for the near term, we think we got a great lineup of products, and we expect to fight and protect our share while expanding the role we play in a variety of different places in the industry.
But now is when we're planning for '22, '23. And we are evaluating now -- in light of where we are, where we think the industry, the competition of third parties are, evaluating now what's the best option for us to make sure that we can deliver an annual cadence of product leadership for our customers. And those decisions are not decisions that we'll make in 2023. Those decisions based on the information that we have along the way will be made long before then, whether it's decisions about how much capacity we need to put in place or decisions about how do we leverage more effectively somebody else's process capabilities and factories so that we can get real good incremental returns on capital deployed.
Our next question comes from Stacy Rasgon with Bernstein Research.
I want to ask about the acceleration in 10-nanometer. Is this really because yields are getting better and there's higher demand or because you're trying to offset the 7-nanometer delay? Because it's hitting the margins big time, which doesn't really tie in my head to, like, yields getting hugely better versus where you thought they were going to be in January. So how do I think about the drivers of that 7-nanometer acceleration in light of the 7 -- or 10-nanometer acceleration in light of the 7-nanometer delay given what it's doing to the margins?
Yes. Stacy, this is George. Maybe I'll just cover it in general on the margin picture for the year because it's clearly -- it's having an impact there. The acceleration is really definitionally tied to the fact that we're growing faster than we expected in 2020. And we're -- part of that growth is a higher mix on the PC side and, I would say, on the comms and 5G ASIC side, higher demand for products that are on 10-nanometer than we had forecasted for the year. So it's why you're seeing a little less flow-through on revenue than we would have expected for the year. It's a positive growth story in that, again, we're seeing customers attracted to the 10-nanometer products.
But wait a minute, if I look at your annual guidance now versus where it was in the beginning of the year, it's higher, but it's actually lower in the second half versus what you had implied in -- when you first gave the annual guidance 6 months ago. How does that imply that demand is higher versus where you were now given you've actually lowered the second half?
It's the demand for 10-nanometer products within the mix of our overall revenue, Stacy.
Well, I think I'd start with our full year demand relative to where we were at the beginning of the year is our guidance is up by $1.5 billion in revenue. So that's...
Yes, but you're just making it sound like where you can typically get to, is there...
Let me just finish, Stacy. I think it's a good question, but maybe if you could give me a chance to answer it. So full year demand for the company is higher. Secondly, the yields for 10-nanometer we've kind of set are in line with what we expected coming into the year through the first 6 months, and we feel pretty good about where we are on yields. Third, that the overall demand for our products on PC side and for the 5G SoC in the comms sector is higher than we expected. That is part of the contribution to the $1.5 billion of higher revenue for the year. And as we accelerate 10 faster, because customers are banding it more, the implications are that our margins, all else equal, will be lower. George kind of highlighted those were the primary drivers of the 1 point decline. 10-nanometer products are ramping faster, and our 5G comms business and the Data Center Group is growing much quicker than we had anticipated.
I put that -- I put ramping of 10-nanometer faster in the good category. We feel -- we know margins are lower when we start a new node versus exit an old node. 10-nanometer margins are lower than 14 at this stage of the game. Ramping 10, we think, is a good thing for customers. We do take a dip in yield. If it's more of our growth than we had anticipated, all else equal, margins will be a little bit lower. And that's kind of the updated guidance for the year. Higher growth in a more challenging market, more demand for our 10-nanometer products that we're ramping as we -- ramping yields as we expected with more volume, all else equal, will have a modest impact on our gross margin for the full year. Thank you.
Our next question comes from Timothy Arcuri with UBS.
I wanted to ask also on the same manufacturing topic. So I think, Bob, when you were talking about Ponte Vecchio, I think you said that you're going to package it internally, but it seemed like you were implying an external foundry contingency even for this first GPU product. I guess my question is, did I read that right? And also, I wanted to ask, George, what the long-term implications are if you move to somebody else's fab? What does this do to your 57% to 63% long-term gross margin? And how does it impact free cash flow? I mean, obviously, it saves you on CapEx, but can it be accretive to free cash flow?
Yes. On the -- on Ponte Vecchio, originally, the architecture of Ponte Vecchio includes an I/O-based die connectivity, a GPU and some memory tiles, all kind of packaged together. That's kind of the design of Ponte Vecchio. From the beginning, we would do some of those tiles inside and some of those tiles outside and again leverage the packaging technology as a proof point of how do we mix and match different designs into one package. So that was the design from the beginning. And again, when we talk about disaggregation, more flexibility, optionality in our designs, use some stuff inside, some stuff outside, Ponte Vecchio was really -- Ponte Vecchio on the data center side and Lakefield on the client side were kind of our test products, both the -- one of which we've launched; the other one, which is in development. So that design disaggregation gives us lots of flexibility.
As we go forward now, we can think about whether we introduce Ponte Vecchio with -- I think I said some of those tiles are inside and outside from the beginning. Now as we go forward, we can assess whether we swap out one of our tiles for a third-party foundry or not. Again, that's the beauty and the value of this change in design methodology that gives us much more optionality and flexibility. So in the event there's a process slip, we can buy something rather than make it all ourselves.
And with respect to the long-term outlook, first off, our long-term margin outlook is not 57%. We've talked about it being well above that over time. But in terms of -- as we dynamically move -- potentially move product depending on where it is best provided, I think that certainly gives us more flexibility to optimize our capital spend, get a higher return on that capital spend. And it should be accretive to free cash flow. So we talked a little bit about that actually back in May of '19 that embracing the ecosystem and balancing some of our activity externally is going to be important as we look to improving returns over time.
Our next question comes from Weston Twigg with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
I just wanted to ask about the data-centric revenue heading into Q3. The mid-single-digit decline year-over-year implies a pretty big decline from Q2. You helped a little bit on the call, but I'm wondering if you could help us better understand the reason for that big quarterly drop. And kind of as an aside, you also mentioned increased competition in DCG in the second half, and I'm just wondering what exactly you're referring to on that side.
Yes. As you look at the data-centric revenue, we'll see a number of factors at play. Obviously, year-over-year, you're going to see the impact of the falloff in IoT and in Mobileye. But what we're seeing in the data-centric -- or the DCG side is we think we peaked on cloud in the second quarter, and it was an all-time record, so not a bad peak. We've probably peaked back in Q4 of '19 on enterprise and government. And while it was reasonably strong in Q1, it's -- you can see it coming down over the next few quarters. It may have -- it often has a little bit of a bounce in Q4, we'll have to see. And our comms provider, I would say, we expect Q2 to have been a peak there, and that'll start rolling off from there. So everything on the DCG side has got a step-down from a very strong Q2 and probably continues down on cloud and comms as our current outlook. Does that help?
Okay. Yes. That's helpful. And then the comment on increased competition in DCG in second half.
Yes. We expected, based on the competition's product road map, that we would see increasing competition in the second half of this year. We also thought -- we've been a little bit pleasantly surprised in the strength of our -- the demand for our products in the first half of the year, and it's continuing into the second half. So we don't think the impact will be quite as large competitively in the second half as we had thought. And as I said on PC, we think we're going to actually gain share.
I would just say it's -- we had -- when we guided back in January, in the context of our guidance, we made that statement. So George is just reiterating that, that we see a more competitive world, and we'll be prepared to deal with it. And we've factored that into our outlook for the second half of the year.
Operator, I think we have time for one more question, and then we'll turn the call back over to Bob to wrap things up.
And our final question comes from Srini Pajjuri with SMBC Nikko.
George, I have a question about your guidance for the full year. I think it implies DCG declining again in Q4, pretty much in double-digit sequentially. So just trying to understand, I mean, is it primarily because of digestion that you talked about? And also if you can talk about to what extent you have visibility into Q4. Are you just taking a conservative stance because you just simply don't have visibility into Q4?
I think as I said on the last question that we have a reasonable view that spending is going to be coming down in the cloud and in enterprise and even comms off of very high levels, and we expect that to continue into Q4. And so again, I think when we look at the full year, stronger than expected. Overall, this is -- this would be -- in many ways, we're delighted to be as close to our forecast as we were given all of the things going on in the world. But again, we've seen very strong demand peaking for cloud in the third quarter -- excuse me, the second quarter; peaking for comms in the second quarter. And it's just going to be a period of a little bit of digestion as one would expect.
Yes. Let me just kind of close out and end where we began. First, over the last couple of years, as you know, we've expanded our TAM in the quest to play a much larger role in our customers' success by investing in key leading technologies like 5G, AI and intelligence at the edge. And we feel pretty good about the investments that we've been making. And last year, we wrapped up our best year in the company's history, entering 2020. Obviously, this year has been an incredibly challenging year on multiple fronts. But at the same time, we expect '20 to be the best year in our company's history, our fifth record year in a row, delivering better results than we expected in January at a time when the market is worse than we expected. So competitively, we feel stronger as we exit 2020.
Third point I'd make is our execution has improved. Capacity and supply is in place. We're ramping a slew of 10-nanometer products across our portfolio. We are ramping 10 faster than we had planned and we have a strong leadership -- a strong pipeline over the next several years. And we believe we can deliver another notable performance on 10-nanometer itself.
Fourth point, at the same time, our 7-nanometer products will be delayed. We've pushed out the timing of the 7-nanometer node. But along the way, we have taken steps on die disaggregation, advanced packaging, deeper engagement with the ecosystem and contingency planning as a sign of strength, not as a sign of weakness, that gives us much more flexibility to make the decisions on where is the most effective way to build our products to deliver that annual cadence of leadership for our customers. And we feel pretty good about where we are, though we're not happy. I'm not pleased with our 7-nanometer process performance.
But as we sit here today, 6 months through the year, our people are safe. We're delivering for our customers. The communities we operate in are better as a result of our presence and the passion of our employees for making a difference. And next 90 days from now, we'll talk more about our efforts to create world-changing technologies that continue to enrich the lives of every person on earth. So thanks for joining us, and we'll talk to you soon.
Thanks, Bob, and thank you all for joining us today. Operator, could you please go ahead and wrap up the call?
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.