The first question is from Sami Badri with Credit Suisse.
My first question is for the team here. And just wanted to know that now that you've achieved the 50% of revenue coming from software and services, and that was the guidepost given at the 2017 Analyst Day, do you guys have a new target in mind and new range? I know you guys introduced some new products and new services and some new investment areas. I'm just hoping to understand it seems you get maybe a new road map or a new target that we should hold you guys or measure you against.
Yes. Sami, thanks for the question. And it's been a pretty successful 3 years as we've been making this transition, and we obviously still have ways to go, to your question, relative to a new target. We were talking about this in the last week or so. And we feel like we just need to get through this pandemic cycle that we have, and then we'll set some new targets, and we'll communicate them to you at that time. So we don't have one yet.
The next question is from Meta Marshall with Morgan Stanley Investment Research.
Great. Chuck, you referred to kind of changes you're going to make to the portfolio based on conversations you were having with customers. Do you -- where do you feel like they are in terms of knowing what their kind of network architectures are looking like when they come back or just how their budgets are looking for the remainder of the year?
Yes. Thanks, Meta. I think that when we think about the network architectures, I think one thing we know is that the -- our customers are living in this multi-cloud environment. And as they went into this work-from-home environment, as I said on our last call, those who had technical debt and those who had not really invested in modernizing their infrastructure, they know they will need to do that, and they'll do it at different paces based on their financial abilities.
I'd say that it's clear that many of our customers do want to consume the technology as a service. So we're currently looking at the entire portfolio to see what -- how deeply we can get into the portfolio relative to delivering as a service. And I think we'll have a lot of that in the marketplace by the end of the calendar year.
We will also be working with our customers on their network architectures, which are certainly going to be prevalent on -- or dependent upon cloud security, on SD-WAN and the integration of those. So we're going to accelerate that as well as helping them navigate this multi-cloud world because I do think that we have seen some customers accelerate that shift as well. So the network architectures that we built 15 years ago, as I've talked about, just aren't relevant today because the traffic flows are completely different. And so we'll continue to work with customers, and I think it will be at a different pace just based on how they all come out and how they manage the pandemic.
The next question is from Ittai Kidron with Oppenheimer & Co.
Chuck, when you talk about the portfolio and the changes you need to make over there and the acceleration of R&D in some areas, can you talk about more specifically what areas you feel you need the most adjustment in? And also, it feels like the pace of technology evolution, it clearly is -- just keeps accelerating. There's so much of it you can do internally. And you've been very acquisitive in the past, but I can't help but feel like you need to move much faster and much more aggressive on M&A. And I know you've been very disciplined from a price standpoint. And clearly, a market like we have today is not necessarily conducive to that. But just given the fact that we're moving much, much faster, are you more open to get a bit more aggressive here on the M&A front to fill in gaps? Because it sounds like -- it feels like the longer you wait on this, the gaps will keep getting bigger, not smaller.
Yes. Ittai, it's a great question. And your first question around the areas that we feel like we need to invest, I think this pandemic is basically just -- it's just giving us the air cover to accelerate the transition of R&D expense into cloud security, cloud collab away from the on-prem aspects of the portfolio. Clearly, we've got a lot of technology that we're working on today to help our customers over the next 3, 4, 5 years in this multi-cloud world that they're going to live in. And you'll see more of that come out over the next couple of years.
But on the M&A question, I think that there's clearly a recognition that the valuations of the assets that are attractive have achieved different levels. And so I think that we'll continue to be disciplined, but I would say that we're open to looking at the current world and the reality that we live in. So I think we're open to any and all ideas, and we continue to work through different options, and we have a list of potential targets that we maintain on a pretty regular basis. And so I think the real difference is -- there has to be a recognition that the valuations have changed, but we'll try to be disciplined and do the right thing at the right time.
The next question is from Jim Suva with Citigroup Investment Research.
Kelly, you'll be significantly missed, so thank you for the duration. But looking forward, if my model is right, and maybe it's wrong, it seems like year-over-year revenue comparisons get materially easily -- easier, maybe to the tune of 400 basis points year-over-year for the quarter outlook. And like with Huawei being pushed out and Cisco being preferred in many countries, even beyond the United States as well as an incumbency factor coming out of coronavirus, help me bridge your kind of year-over-year revenue growth. And maybe it's still yet to come about why things aren't more positive because the comps are easier. Huawei is less preferred than Cisco. Cisco has an incumbency factor, and we're coming out of coronavirus.
Well, I'll comment subjectively, and then I'll let Kelly talk a little bit about the numbers. I wouldn't say that we're coming out of the coronavirus right now. I think that it feels to me very much like it felt 90 days ago. And clearly, the -- in the U.S., we have not seen -- we've seen some areas that have gotten better and, obviously, some that have not. But I'd say in general, it feels pretty much the same as it did 90 days ago to us relative to that.
I think that some of the things you're talking about around service providers around the world and the possibility where we would be getting opportunities that we wouldn't have had before, I think some of those are still to be seen. But we would share that optimism, and we'll have to wait and see how that plays out.
Kelly, do you want to talk about the...
Yes. And then from our compares, I mean, Q1 of '20, so my guide for this next quarter, in Q1 of '21, that's our toughest compare to the -- obviously, we had -- Q3 and Q4 were very, very tough for us in '20 because of COVID. So comparing to Q1 of '20 right now, we still have some tougher compares. But they do get easier as the year goes on, assuming that the pandemic ends. But as you know, Jim, we forecast based on what we see, based on the order rates, and we feel this is a pretty accurate guide.
Kelly, thank you so much for your service.
Thanks, Jim. I appreciate it.
The next question is from Paul Silverstein with Cowen.
Maybe sort of a question, 2 clarifications. Chuck, your response to Jim's question, when you talk about feeling pretty much the same as 90 days ago in the U.S., you're referring to both enterprise and commercial, your small, medium customers as well as your large customers across the board? And then with respect to the $1 billion that you referenced in terms of coming out of costs, will that all be out of OpEx? And I appreciate there's probably some sensitivity if it involves headcount reduction, as I suspect it does. But Kelly, I'm hoping you could give us a sense for the timing in that reduction and the nature of the reductions. Is that all in OpEx? Or is some of it out of cost of goods sold?
Yes. Paul, let me just tell you a little bit. I'll give you a little sort of customer segment and around-the-world view of what it's felt like in the last 90 days or so. So maybe that will help add a little color. In the U.S., in particular, I'd say the -- we saw some strength in the very high end of enterprise. And then sort of as you go down in the marketplace, we just -- the weakness got a little bit worse as you just sort went straight down, as you would expect with small business, medium business and even smaller-size enterprises that were -- didn't perform as well as the very largest of enterprises. But we did see strength in the very large enterprise in the U.S.
We also saw some strength in federal in the U.S. clearly. And that was actually really promising because they had a very strong quarter a year ago. So they executed really well.
Service provider around the world. If you look at Asia and Europe, our service provider business was positive in both of those regions. And it was just slightly negative in the U.S. It was primarily Canada and Mexico in the Americas that drove the negative here. So overall, that was a bright spot, particularly outside the United States.
We did see countries -- a few countries that actually began to show some positives. And I'm trying to think through like can we build a model that says Asia went in first, and so they're going to come out first. And we did see Japan had a good quarter for us on the demand side. Korea had a good quarter for us on the demand side, and we're seeing some positives. Germany had a good quarter for us. And I'd say if we think about how our European team feels right now, they actually feel reasonably okay. Not great, great, but better than they did 90 days ago. The Americas is still sort of the wildcard, I'd say, that we see right now.
So hopefully, that gives you a little more color around what we're seeing up and down the stack. And then, Kelly, do you want to...
Yes. Sure. Where you'll see the cost coming out, I'd say, the majority is in OpEx. I'd say maybe an 80-20 split. We'll certainly have some in COGS, too, on that side, on the services side, but mostly in OpEx. And in terms of timing, we should see a lot of this -- most of this, the bulk of this coming out at the end of Q1 and a little bleeding over into Q2, depending on the country it's in.
Kelly, you'll be missed.
Thank you, Paul. Appreciate it.
The next question is from Rod Hall with Goldman Sachs.
I guess I wanted to go back to the linearity of this order trajectory, Chuck and Kelly, on particularly enterprise. I guess if we go back to 2009, we're starting to see commercial order volumes deteriorating into the range we saw back then in that recession. We haven't really seen enterprise do that. And I wonder whether you think that, that is where we're kind of headed here. It just feels like this is not turning out to be a V-shape recovery. It's more like a -- we're headed into a real recession, prolonged recession. So I'm just curious kind of what you think about the trajectory of those volumes, what they look like at the end of the quarter versus the beginning of the quarter.
Well, I would say that -- I'll make a couple of comments, and I'll kick it to Kelly to give you a little bit more color. I think that as Kelly and I looked at where we expected demand to be from the beginning of the quarter to the end of the quarter, we were pretty much in line. In fact, it was a slight, slight, slight bit better than we had anticipated at the beginning of the quarter. But I would not get too excited about it being slightly better, as you can tell from the guide.
But -- and then I think linearity was generally in line, but it was probably a little more back-end loaded than we've seen. And we had a lot of big enterprise activity towards the end of the quarter. So Kelly, anything to add?
Yes. The only thing I'll add, and Chuck kind of touched on this -- I mean, again, it is the biggest, biggest premier enterprise accounts, they are still investing significantly and we -- they had very good order rates. But it does -- as you go down the tiers in enterprise, it did slow down and just -- and commercial is not surprising. You saw what the commercial numbers are.
So I do think it is related to their waiting to see what comes out of the pandemic, and they're pausing their spends. But I think this is why seeing the big, big accounts still investing in their digital transformation, I think, gives us confidence that once we do get through this, we feel good about how we'll come out of it.
Okay. Can I have a follow-up?
Sure.
Go ahead. Go ahead, Rod.
Yes. I just wondered if you guys could talk a little bit about the -- kind of what sort of color you're hearing from the enterprise customers. Do you think that they've -- because they're investing so aggressively in work from home, are they pulling demand forward out of the back end of the year? Like are their budgets changing? Are they just kind of robbing from the back end-of-the-year budgets and moving it toward the front end of the year to compensate for work from home and all that stuff that's going on?
I don't think that -- I haven't heard anything about anybody pulling anything forward. I think that the larger the companies are, the more confident they have in their ability to come out at some point. And they're going to continue to invest to position themselves when they come out.
And clearly, there are some large enterprises that are not investing, given -- depending on which industries they're in. But I don't -- I think it was just -- I think it's just normal investment cycles that certain large companies have just decided they're going to continue to pursue.
And I do think Kelly made a good point. As we've given like the number of software license agreements that we did, I mean, it says that the portfolio that we have and the strategy we have, I think, whether it's helping them with application visibility as they move more to the cloud, it's going to be more -- it's going to resonate even more. When you think about the security strategy we have, going to the cloud, it's going to be more required in the future. We look at this infrastructure transformation, as they deal with this multi-cloud world and these new traffic flows, I think that's going to be super relevant. And then obviously, the employee and customer experience that they have, which are all areas that we're investing in, I think when we come out of this, those will be even more in demand than they were when we went into it. We just got to get to the other side of it, and then I feel pretty good.
Next question is from Simon Leopold with Raymond James.
Great. Kelly, we will miss you. So -- and you're too young to retire.
Thanks, Simon.
I wanted to follow up, Chuck, on the Cat 9K because you did mention the strength there. And I guess I'm trying to discern sort of the macro versus the product cycle issues. And my understanding is that the portfolio has been releasing platforms that are more suited for smaller enterprises just at the time when those are the weakest customers. So if you could help us maybe understand the overall contributions of this product and where you are in the product cycle and maybe even explain what's macro-related versus normal cycle-related.
Yes. Simon, I'll let Kelly talk about the numbers in a minute, but I'm going to share with you my instinct on this because I thought about the same thing. Because the one thing that we know is that the campus business that we have, their -- people aren't in their campus offices. So the whole notion of refresh and upgrades clearly are not top of mind for every customer the way they might have been 9 months ago.
However, what I think is that the 9K is for those customers who are either in the process of a real commitment to modernizing their infrastructure and they're continuing to do that or they've made a decision and they have the financial wherewithal right now to actually embark on that, and the 9K is what they are using to do that in their campus environments. And some of them are using this opportunity, with no one in their campus environments, to upgrade. Clearly, that's not every customer. But I think what it says is those customers who are still on our older platforms, which we didn't see the growth on, it's sort of the story we talked about. They haven't committed to refresh. They haven't committed to that modernization piece, and so they're not -- that part is not accelerating, but the 9K has continued to accelerate. So it's been a positive story for us.
Kelly, do you want to answer the...
No. I think you said it well. And I think, Simon, your point is well. I mean so the products you referenced, the Cat 9200, which was launched for the lower end -- the mid- to lower end, is in that commercial segment, to your point. But when I look at it individually, that product is still -- revenue is growing like amazing double digits. And so that just shows that we're still very early in the transition. What -- when the customers are buying, they are buying the new portfolio hand over fist. And it's just the COVID impact of the overall -- and again, the legacy products falling off is really what's driving, but that's why we have faith and feel good about the portfolio when we come out of the environment.
Yes. Simon, I think 2 just comments on top of that. Number one is we're still very early in this whole process. And then the 9200, I think it's important to note, it is a small business product, but it's also an access layer product in enterprises. It goes into branches. It goes into, in some cases, wiring closets, et cetera. So we will still see some continued demand for that.
The next question is from James Fish with Piper Sandler.
Congrats on the retirement there, Kelly.
Thanks, James.
For me, I kind of want to bridge a few of the questions that have been asked together. But Chuck, you talked about accelerating the transition towards SaaS. Can you guys give us an update as to where that SaaS revenue is, not the term license contribution, and where you guys think it could accelerate given the investments? And then utilizing Ittai's question from before, do you need to acquire to help accelerate it?
Well, I'll let Kelly answer the numbers question. We gave you the total software number. We gave you the percent that's coming from subscriptions and SaaS, but I think you're asking specifically about SaaS. So -- and look, I think that we've made a lot of progress. If you do the math on where the software in our portfolio was 5 years ago and what percentage of it was coming from subscription and SaaS, we've certainly increased it significantly over the last 4 or 5 years without any major, major revenue-driving acquisitions. So that would certainly help.
And we continue -- as I said earlier, continue to look at alternatives in that space. And you should assume that we will continue to look at them, but we'll also be disciplined. So we'll -- Kelly, do you want to touch on the SaaS number or...
Yes. I mean we don't disclose the total SaaS number. I mean, again, it's made up of our Webex business, a lot of our portfolio, Duo, Umbrella, in Security. And again, acquisition, Meraki is a hybrid, where we ship an appliance, but then it has the SaaS management. And things like ThousandEyes that we're adding to our networking portfolio and AppDynamics, I mean, that's just going to continue to accelerate.
So I think you're going to see it twofold, right? You're going to continue to see us to be -- those are the type of assets that we have been acquiring, and we'll continue to acquire. And you're seeing internally, this is also how we are developing product to try to accelerate that. But the growth in the SaaS portfolio has been really good for us.
Understood. Appreciate the color. And congrats again, Kelly.
Thanks, James.
The next question is from Jeff Kvaal with Wolfe Research.
My congratulations again, Kelly. We look forward to seeing you in a new role at some point down the road. I have a question and a clarification. I think the question, Chuck, last quarter, you spent a little bit of time talking with us about traction on the web scale side of things. I'm wondering if that traction has seen some follow-through, if you could update us on that.
And then secondly, for Kelly, when you suggest that the OpEx will come lower by $800 million, is that a gross number? Or is that a net number, i.e. you'll take it out by $800 million but bring some back in some of the growth areas in this business?
Yes. Jeff, thanks for asking the question. I would have been in trouble if I've gotten off this call and not talk about the web scale. So we saw another positive quarter. So that's one of the areas that was really positive for us. It was a third quarter in a row where we've had double-digit growth with the web scale players. And again, as I said last quarter, it's -- we have had some traction with the 8K, some traction with our silicon, but nothing that's meaningfully moving the numbers yet. So it really is just the rest of the portfolio. But as I said, I think it speaks to the long-term effort that we've put in over the last few years of rebuilding these relationships. And I think it speaks to their belief in our strategy going forward. And we feel good about where we are.
And we believe over the next 1 to 2 years that they'll begin to be meaningful contributors. And we're excited about what we -- what the teams have done.
And on the cost out. So it's -- again, we are taking out gross over $1 billion. So that is gross. But like anything, Jeff, there's puts and takes as we go forward. So whether it's things like the dollars, weaker FX, it's going to be a bit of a headwind this year. We reset the bonus, all that kind of stuff, that will be puts and takes. But that's -- it's a real cost out that we're taking out as we go through into our planning.
Our last question is from George Notter with Jefferies.
I guess I wanted to kind of go back to the discussion of moving more of the business to a as-a-service model. And could you just put a little bit more meat on the bone in terms of what areas are you specifically thinking about as new candidates to kind of move that direction? And how do you incentivize customers in those areas also? I'm just trying to think about the mechanics of how this works. And then congrats to Kelly also.
Literally, we're looking at everything. I mean we're trying to -- we're looking at everything from our compute portfolio to -- clearly, our software assets are already in the midst of that transition, and many of them are already being sold that way. And we're even looking at how we deliver our traditional networking hardware as a service over time. So it is literally across the portfolio.
And then we see an acceleration of some of the work that's already been underway. Obviously, the Collaboration portfolio has been transitioning to as a service for quite a while. We even launched last -- I don't know, 2, 3 quarters ago, we launched our hardware as a service and the Collaboration portfolio as a pilot. And we've been working hard on all the operational capabilities and the systems work that needs to be done to do that. So it literally is across the entire portfolio. And we'll give you an update on the next call, for sure.
Right. I believe that was our last question. Thanks, George. I'll turn it back to you, Chuck.
All right. I just want to recap and just thank, first of all, Kelly, for everything and the friendship and all the great work that you've done and reiterate that she's going to stay with us until we actually identify her successor. And she'll help advise us through that process. So we're excited about her sticking around and helping us do that. I want to thank the team for executing through a really challenging time. And I really want to reiterate that I think the strategy that we had going in, I believe when we come out of the pandemic, will be more relevant to our customers than it was 6, 9 months ago. So I'm optimistic about the future. And we're going to continue to execute through this. And thank you all for joining us today.
Great. Thank you, Chuck. Cisco's next quarterly earnings conference call, which will reflect our fiscal 2021 first quarter results will be on Thursday, November 12, 2020, at 1:30 p.m. Pacific Time, 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time. Again, I'd like to remind the audience that in light of Regulation FD, Cisco's policy is not to comment on its financial guidance during the quarter unless it's done through an explicit public disclosure.
We now plan to close the call, but if you have any further questions, feel free to contact the Cisco Investor Relations group. And we thank you very much for joining today's call.
Thank you for participating on today's conference call. If you would like to listen to the call in its entirety, you may call (866) 429-0574. For participants dialing from outside of the U.S., please dial (203) 369-0916. This concludes today's call. You may disconnect at this time.