David, in the prepared remarks, you talked about inventory accumulation potentially masking weakness of customers. What -- where specifically might you have that anxiety? It seems like in compute, I think conditions are pretty strong and your customers don't seem to have a lot of this end product inventory. So when you -- is that just a precautionary remark on your side? Or is there anything you're seeing there that creates anxiety?
Well, we -- I mean clearly, as I said -- oh, sorry. Yes. Sure.
So let me -- I'm sorry. I was just going to say, let me address that first, and then I will definitely have Dave expand on that.
So it is an environment where there can be supply shortages. And of course, underlying demand trends in the markets we are participating continue to be strong. There can be supply shortages given the fluid situation related to the spread of coronavirus in various countries. The rate and pace is different. And ultimately, it will depend upon the rules and regulations that different governments may impose that can potentially impact supply in the industry.
So just like we are accumulating some inventory ourselves to make sure that we don't have supply disruptions, it is legitimate to think that our customers can also be building some inventory to make sure that their supply chain is under control. So I think this is the part that we are just mindful of. Although when you look at work-from-home economy and study-from-home economy for students that are certainly driving greater demand in the enterprise PC side and certainly placing quite a bit of constraints and stress on the infrastructure, so the cloud infrastructure, the enterprise infrastructure definitely is driving increased demand as well.
So in that backdrop, I think we are just being mindful in terms of making those comments. But I will let Dave further elaborate on it.
Yes. I think what you covered, Sanjay, is good. The only thing I'd add is I think we believe the strength in the data center market is real and that the inventory levels are normal in that market.
Our next question comes from Timothy Arcuri of UBS.
I guess, Sanjay, there was some language in the release that -- and you guys have talked about the fact that you're a lagging indicator relative to demand. Can you just help parse through that? I guess it sounds like maybe you're suggesting that the fiscal fourth quarter could be maybe down sequentially, which is typically up. I know that it's very difficult to tell what's going on right now. But maybe can you just help us walk through what the puts and takes look like into Q4? I know you don't want to guide Q4, but it sounds like it's possibly down. So can you just help us think about that?
So certainly, as you noted, we are not guiding to Q4 here. And, of course, the environment is fluid. These are unprecedented times in terms of anybody dealing any business, any verticals or any country dealing with the situation and the spread and containment of coronavirus. But what I would say here is that with respect to our own assessment of the demand trends, I think underlying demand trends definitely continue to be healthy. And when we look at what we supply to our customers, customers build it into the product, if there has to be any macroeconomic weakness, and we know that in the environment of coronavirus pandemic, there will be some impact on some aspects of the consumer demand. The consumer demand, there's a lag between the consumer demand getting impacted to the demand from our customers who are building the product in their supply chains getting impacted. So that's what we mean that sometimes there can be a lag between what we are supplying to our customers versus the impact on the demand in the marketplace.
So we are not guiding to fourth quarter. I think what's important is that it will depend on the spread of the virus, the containment of the virus. Different countries may have their containment at different rates. So while we have seen, for example, last fiscal quarter, our F Q2, demand in China, in the consumer demand and the smartphone demand decline, we have also seen that China has contained this. And, in fact, production is coming back in China, and the demand is being restored in China. Same thing will happen in other parts of the world as well, that while there may be some impact on smartphone demand in different countries, eventually, as the containment happen, the consumer demand will be back, and the long-term trends certainly for our business are strong. The trends of 5G driving greater content in smartphone when we come back on the other side of this pandemic, there will be -- the demand drivers will reassert themselves.
Similarly, cloud demand continues to do well. As I mentioned, the COVID-19 scenario may actually be accelerating some of that demand in cloud that is driving greater demand for memory and storage. The point is, the situation is fluid, and we are really not prepared to guide you to F Q4 at this point.
Our next question comes from John Pitzer of Crédit Suisse.
I'm just kind of curious, Sanjay and Dave, is it possible to quantify what the impact of COVID was in the February quarter? And more importantly, is there a number in mind for May? It's clear the uncertainty is increasing the range for the May guide, but is it also bringing down the midpoint? Any sort of guidance of how you're thinking through that would be very helpful.
So I'll let Dave address that.
Okay. Yes. Sure. So maybe without throwing out a number because it's difficult to estimate, clearly, we would have been above the high end of the range on revenue if not for COVID-19. And there were some mitigation expenses already in both cost of sales and operating expenses that impacted us a bit in the fiscal second quarter as well. We would have likely been more skewed to a higher growth number for fiscal third quarter if not for COVID-19. And, of course, somewhat unusual for us, we widened the range by a couple of hundred million dollars also to account for the uncertainty as it relates to what might happen, not only from a demand perspective, but from a supply perspective. Either one has some risk to it.
Additionally, we have built in more costs associated with COVID mitigations for us. Sanjay and I already talked about the fact that we're carrying higher levels of inventory of raw materials, but we're also having to flex our supply chain back and have some redundancy that can drive up some expenses on the cost of sales side. In addition, we may see an increased level of tariff expense in an effort to mitigate some supply disruptions that might occur. And also, there's a fair amount of expense associated with just the work-from-home model and allow -- enabling our employees to be able to do all the work they do in the offices now in their homes, and so there are some expenses associated with that.
So our expense likely would have been down even more, particularly with all the actions we've taken to reduce expenses, if not for the fact that we have a bit of this offset or headwind associated with the mitigation expenses in the third quarter.
Our next question comes from C.J. Muse of Evercore.
Great to hear that you're safe and well. I guess my question is regarding the supply side, particularly for DRAM. You talked about some issues related to equipment installation and part availability. You've also talked about switching over some of your capacity from mobility to server. So curious, as you think that through, what does bit production look like now, either for you or for the industry here in calendar '20? I think we were all thinking kind of 6% to 8% coming in. Is that still the right number? Or is there a change there?
So I think what we have said before the COVID-19 scenario that in calendar year '20, the DRAM demand growth would be in mid-teens, around mid-teens, and that supply would be somewhat less for the year, supply growth would be somewhat less for the year than the demand growth. And of course, as we look at the scenario of supply growth, technology transitions, the node transitions in the industry perhaps can be impacted by tool deliveries or the engineering or the service support in the industry.
It's too soon to tell this but the point is that there could be some impact to supply and not just related to the wafer output, but there could be some impact to the supply, as I said before, depending upon the rules and regulations and the orders in various countries where the supply chain for memory and storage exists. If those orders impact any production, there could be some supply growth impact there as well. It's hard to tell at this point. And we certainly, when we look at our current supply growth, our current supply growth at this point is intact, but we are mindful of the changes that could occur due to the COVID environment. And of course, we continue to watch the demand as well. And on the supply side, we will take actions.
Today, we have shortages in supply, as we have mentioned, for server DRAM as well as for cloud. Overall, there are shortages for DRAM. And therefore, we are shifting some of the supplies from mobile to the DRAM side. But of course, we'll continue to keep track of what the demand looks like. And as we said, we will evaluate making reductions in our production utilization or in terms of any CapEx aspects to manage the supply growth during the calendar year '20, but it's too soon to really give you any specific projections on that.
Our next question comes from Mehdi Hosseini of SIG.
David or Sanjay, can you please tell me how you think of the mix of revenue from China, especially going back to what Sanjay said earlier, China is resuming operation? They're also providing a lot of incentives for 5G adoption. And I'm just curious how China accounted for your revenues in the February quarter and how you see it trending for the remainder of the year.
So I'll let Dave answer that.
Yes. So I think cumulative revenues, I'll have to go back and look at the exact statistic, but it was somewhere in the kind of 30%, I think it was, China revenue in aggregate. Clearly, as you said, there is a come-back-to-work kind of phenomenon going on in China, and there is economic stimulus. So that certainly will benefit. But we're -- also the customers in the U.S. are -- a lot of them are in the cloud space. And of course, that's a big driver of our business today, given, as Sanjay mentioned, the move to work-from-home and e-commerce and so forth. So I'm not sure that the mix, as we projected, is likely to shift around significantly, geographically.
Our next question comes from Ambrish Srivastava of BMO.
I had a question on capacity and cost per bit. What percent of your CapEx is flexible? And I appreciate that things are in such a way that it's very hard for you to tell us how much you're going to -- you would flex. But just as a ballpark, what percentage? And then is the cost down going to change based on what you know as of now versus what you told us last quarter for both NAND and for DRAM?
In terms of CapEx, we -- for our fiscal third quarter, we won't be impacting the CapEx of fiscal third quarter. However, for the rest of the calendar year '20, we certainly will be, as I said before, evaluating our CapEx as well as our production utilization to make sure that our supply stays in line with our demand expectations. Demand expectations, of course, we laid out, working closely with our customers.
So just like in 2019, we made changes to CapEx fairly rapidly, and we reacted fast as well as we manage our production. We will, of course, be doing the same things here. Just keep in mind that the situation with respect to coronavirus escalation across the globe just has really evolved rapidly over the course of last couple of weeks. So we will, of course, keep close tabs with our customer demand expectations. And we will make sure that we make any adjustments to our CapEx, if needed, accordingly. We are absolutely continuing to look at that.
And in terms of cost reductions, of course, cost reductions are a function of technology transitions that are being made in the fabs. And so far, we are on plan with respect to the cost guidance that we had provided to you for our fiscal year '20.
I would add that on the NAND front, as you've seen, we've gotten a fair amount of benefit from the change in depreciation in the first half of fiscal '20. So that, in essence, kind of pulled ahead. As you remember probably, we mentioned that as we transition to replacement gate, FY '20 would show a minimal cost decline. And really FY '21 was where we would see it. But with the depreciation change, in reality, what's happening is we're kind of pulling ahead some of that improvement into fiscal '20. So when you look at the percentages, a bit better in FY '20 and maybe not as good as we had originally kind of telegraphed in FY '21.
And in addition, what -- we continue to drive this mix to the high-value solutions, they generally carry higher costs. And we hope to continue that. Our goal is to get to 80%. So that certainly will also be an impact on the cost side as well. But if you step back and then look at how we do over a multiyear period in terms of NAND improvement, once we're really running on the second-generation replacement gate, in good momentum, we're up to the right yields, it's running through the inventory and showing up in cost of sales, and you see that over a multiyear period, you'll see that our decline in costs over a multiyear period is actually very good, very healthy, very competitive.
And I will just add that due to COVID-19, as we said, that we are enabling greater flexibility in our supply network by adding captive capacity as well as adding capacity on part of our subcontractors to give us the opportunity and resiliency in the supply chain in case there are rules and regulations in various countries that impact our production. So some of those aspects certainly do have headwind on the cost side. But by and large, I think those are being managed well. And overall, our cost targets for fiscal year '20 at this point are on track.
Our next question comes from Aaron Rakers of Wells Fargo.
Congrats on the great execution. I want to go back to the customer inventory dynamics and trying to understand or appreciate how you think about that potential buildup of inventory. Can you help us understand whether you've implemented anything differently or have different lines of visibility into those customers, how you exactly plan on managing or seeing any kind of inventory build, particularly at some of the cloud customers?
I mean we certainly work closely with those customers. Our relationships over time have only deepened with those customers. We have become a more valuable partner to them as well as we have expanded our product offering. For example, on the SSD side, we have brought out NVMe SSDs, those are getting qualified in data center. On the DRAM side, we have been a strong partner with highest quality with those customers. And on the cloud side, still in the very, very early innings of all the growth for memory and storage in cloud. So compared to the last cycle, our relationships with those customers have only expanded, have deepened. We continue to work closely with them in terms of understanding their demand requirements. And this is what -- the best that we can do in terms of working closely with those customers to understand their requirement.
And I would like to once again point out that we are in an environment even before COVID-19 that CapEx investments in cloud were on a strong growth trajectory. A lot of that CapEx going toward the infrastructure for memory and storage requirements. Of course, new CPU architectures with more cores in them as well as more channels giving you greater attach rates for memory and storage and, of course, the workloads that are demanding more DRAM memory for memory-intensive compute applications as well as for faster access driving more SSDs. So those demand trends pre-COVID were already strong. And with COVID, if anything, we are seeing that work-from-home digital economy is driving greater demand on that structure and is accelerating some of that demand. So we, of course, as we work through the memory shortages, we continue to work closely with our customers. And while the smartphone demand may be somewhat down, for example, in China in F Q2, but that demand is coming back in China. And we will continue to monitor these trends in the other parts, and it just requires continuing to work closely with the customers, understanding the requirements and us applying our own judgment and remaining mindful in terms of how we manage overall our supply.
So it's really customer relationship in terms of managing our supply growth and understanding the demand expectations.
Our next question comes from Harlan Sur of JPMorgan.
A strong memory demand driver in the second half of this year, as you pointed out, is the new game console refresh. I think there's 35% to 100% more GDDR DRAM memory versus prior generations platforms and the move to SSD storage versus HDD. Given your leadership in graphics DRAM, we know that the Micron team will be participating here on these new consoles. But given your good NVMe client SSD positioning, is the team also participating in the console refresh with either your NAND or your SSD products?
Certainly, as we expand our portfolio of SSDs, yes, previously, we just had SATA. Now we have NVMe SSDs as well, and we are broadening our reach with those NVMe SSDs and to the end market applications as well as with customers. Certainly, it is a growth market opportunity for us, not only in DRAM but also in SSDs. But as you know, these take product qualifications with the customers. And then we are able to realize the benefit of sales and revenue growth in those areas.
I want to highlight here that as we have expanded our product portfolio, both on the SSD side as well as in mobile, on multichip packages, and bringing out discrete UFS products for mobile applications as well, that really has enabled, as I mentioned in the script, opportunity for us to gain share in the marketplace. We have gained share in NAND, managed NAND solutions in mobile. We have gained share in SSDs as well that's enabling us to deliver healthy results in F Q2. And our gain in share and expanding product portfolio also positions us well to navigate through these choppy waters related to COVID-19, and we remain very focused on continuing to expand the product portfolio and broaden our customer relationships in the kind of applications that you just talked about in gaming consoles, both for DRAM and NAND as we look forward to the future long-term secular demand trends and addressing those requirements by our customers.
Our next question comes from Mitch Steves of RBC Capital Markets.
So impressive guidance there. One of the questions I did have, though, is just the offset of kind of commercial PCs coming back because obviously more people are working from home, offset by kind of the smartphone unit demand. So how are you guys thinking about that for the rest of the calendar year? Obviously, there's a lot of moving parts, but just how do you guys track kind of the lower expected sales probably from the handset type versus commercial PC upgrade from people working from home?
So yes, that's correct. I think there is near-term surge in demand with respect to commercial PCs. I mean if you look at just Micron itself, Micron itself bought something like 5,000 notebook computers to really provide it to our team members in terms of enabling them to work from home, and we implemented those really very, very fast. So yes, surge in demand related to enterprise PCs, and that bodes well for both SSDs as well as for DRAM. And as we noted, also with respect to virtual learning and students learning from home, that also drives demand in notebook. How long this trend last -- and of course, it is global in nature. But how long does it last, we will have to see. But overall, yes, I mean, we do see that.
While there may be some smartphone -- the weakness outside of China, while China is recovering on the smartphone front, certainly, as I said, enterprise PCs and other PCs for virtual learning, along with greater demand in the data center world, is a tailwind for us.
Our next question comes from Raji Gill of Needham & Company.
Just another question on the demand conditions. I think David had mentioned in his prepared remarks that the macro conditions had weakened in the last couple of weeks, and you talked about some of the moving pieces of that. If we try to quantify that, the impact, DRAM is about 70% of your revenue. NAND is 30%. What percentage of DRAM is coming from PCs, hyperscalers, mobile and likewise, on the NAND side? So we can just kind of get a sense of where the potential strengths and weaknesses could be.
So we don't break it down specifically in terms of percentage, but I think what's important is that we are a very well-diversified supplier, and we have a broad portfolio. And the end market applications are well diversified as well, all the way from data center to PC to smartphone, networking, for DRAM, and Micron is well positioned in these markets. And certainly, some of these markets are seeing some shortages today, such as on the side of data center DRAM requirements. And while others, we are continuing to monitor the overall demand trend. But we don't break it out, but important thing is that the underlying vectors for demand are good.
And as we go through the uncertainties related to COVID-19, when we come out on the other side, I'm very confident that with our broad portfolio and deep customer engagement and the technology and product capabilities, I think we will overall do just fine.
By and large, our mix is fairly similar to the industry in terms of overall mix. If you look at the industry, I think you'll see that tablet is in the 25% to 30% range. The mobile tends to be around 25%. PC is 20%, give or take some. And of course, then is all the others, which we can call like specialty, which includes automotive, includes industrial and other applications. And that, you can -- I think were down around 20%. So I think roughly speaking, I think that's the kind of mix. And you can -- as you can see, it's well diversified across these various end market segments.
Our next question comes from Chris Danely of Citigroup.
I guess just to follow up on some other folks' questions. So you talked about the demand forecast or things changing in the last couple of weeks. Can you just give us a sense of what you've seen in the last couple of weeks? And then also for your -- sort of your forward forecasting, whether it's internal or what you're giving us, are you shaving down what your internal forecast is in anticipation of some more weakness? Or is this kind of like what we see is what we have?
So I think as Dave mentioned in his prepared remarks that we see strong demand and favorable price trends. But we had also seen that in China, as is well known, that during the time frame of our fiscal second quarter aligned with the COVID-19 spread in China starting from around mid-January kind of time frame, it had impacted smartphone demand in China, while it grew the demand in the cloud infrastructure in China.
So as now, over the last couple of weeks, you see the spread of coronavirus across the globe and various actions being taken in various countries to contain the spread of coronavirus. We do expect that there will be some impact on the consumer demand, but it is really too soon to quantify that. And again, having said that, we also see increasing demand coming from the cloud side as well as from enterprise PC applications. So we are seeing acceleration of demand on that front. So we are continuing to really manage that, and this is all escalating over the last couple of weeks, and we will, of course, continue to work closely with our customers to understand their increases in demand as well as their demand outlook, for example, in the consumer devices and then manage our business accordingly.
The only thing I'd add is, in the prepared remarks, leading up to what I did say that pricing and demand trends were favorable, and that included all the way up until today. But of course, there's a higher degree of uncertainty, and that's kind of why we got to the range we did.
That does end our session. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.