Sandeep Deshpande, JPMorgan. My first question to you, Peter, is that you've seen very great order strength in the first quarter. Is this order strength, essentially, what -- if you remember in January, it said that you were hoping the Memory orders would come in through the year. It was these Memory orders coming in, which caused this order strength? Or was it something else like customers were worried that they could -- they may not get tools from you and so they expedited their orders to -- and brought them forward from later in the year, which is what caused this order strength? And my second question, which is a follow -- not a follow-up, but with regard to your 40% gross margin indication in EUV for the year, is -- I mean given this -- the social distancing, et cetera, associated with -- which you may be implementing even in manufacturing, will that not have an impact on the cycle times and thus the gross margin?
Okay. Let me answer this first question. I think the order strength, and I think Roger said it, about 2/3 of the order intake was Logic and 1/3 was Memory. So I don't think it is an acceleration of it. It is something that we would -- that we expected. Also driven by, I think, what we observed as a continued increase in utilization in the Memory space of our machines. So that actually fits in quite nicely. I don't think there were pull-ins either. These orders are there to support our outlook for 2021 and this was planned. So basically, you could say it's more a confirmation of the technology road map that our customers have in front of them. So in that sense, good.
On the gross margin indication of 40%, the cycle time impact, we've been able to manage. I mentioned it. We did see an increase in absenteeism in the factories because of the guidelines that people followed by the government, the health authorities, basically saying, if you have symptoms like some of the COVID-19 symptoms, you should stay at home, which people did, even when they had a cold, which actually meant that we did have, indeed, some shortages in the factory, but we've been able to reorder shift patterns. And also what we're seeing is that people that are eligible to work in the factory, for instance, on R&D environment, they are now also working in the factory to make sure that we can do the output. So I think we can manage and I don't think it will have an impact on the 40% gross margin indication that we gave you.
The next question is from Mr. David Mulholland.
It's David from UBS. Just following up on one of the comments that Roger made in terms of how you're looking to, I guess, in some respects, support your supplier base. Can you just give us a little bit more detail about what you're considering there? And are there any particular suppliers that you might be worried about where a particular other part of their business might be, I guess, heavily, or that was exposed that we've seen a very sudden downturn? Just a little more color on how you're planning to support your supplier base.
Yes. Let me answer that. I think we are managing our suppliers almost on a day-to-day basis. And most of what we see in the supply chain currently are delays in delivery of modules that are a result of those, let's say, lockdown situations or shelter-in-place situation where we need to find different solutions leading to a delay of parts. However, as you pointed out, when this situation lasts longer, we also could see that some of our suppliers that are also exposed to other industries that currently are not in the, perhaps, somewhat more enviable position where we are, they might be looking for help from our side. And then that help would largely be requests for prepayments. Now we don't see that yet. But I would expect if this lasts long that this would come and they want some prepayments on orders when our demand profile stays as strong as it is.
Having said that, you have to look at the -- at our integral supply chain, which includes our customers. I mean what is true for our supplier is also true for us. So we are, of course, also in discussion with our customers to say, listen, we need to look at the continuity of the supply chain from an integral point of view. So if we need to prepay suppliers, I need prepayments from our customers, yes? So it is almost, you could say, it's a back-to-back link in terms of potential financing requests. I'm pretty sure that some of them will come, yes, and especially in those areas where, as you pointed out, some of our suppliers are losing significant business in other industries.
So this is what we are -- we don't see it yet, but I mean have been around long enough and also in some other crises, going back to the Internet bubble burst and then the financial crisis and 9/11, there will -- in the supply chain, some potential issues will pop-up, that will just happen. But again, we need to look at this from an integral point of view, from an integral supply chain point of view and our customers play a significant role there also which, by the way, we are in discussion with them and I think these are good discussions. So I'm pretty positive that we can help those areas in our supply chain, which could become critical going forward.
That's great. And just one follow-up on the R&D side of the business. As you said as many as can are working from home, but I presume you haven't closed on R&D facilities because, I guess, a lot of the work you do still needs to be, I guess, physical tests, particularly in the case of High-NA and work that's going on there.
Yes. I think if you really talk about the physical tests, I mean that is done in clean rooms and we build modules. So that's an agreement and we talked about this. I mean we have very strict regulations there now almost for -- I would say, almost for 2 months and they are effective. On the R&D side itself, it is -- when we look at the latest productivity numbers, which we follow on a day-to-day basis, I think 90% of our R&D engineers, they work from home. But with the current possibilities that we have in creating virtual teams and working off-site, I can say that I'm pleasantly surprised with the productivity numbers that I see, whether it's the number of design sign-offs, whether it's the number of software builds, the software calculations. Our IT infrastructure is holding up very well, which we prepared, by the way. So that's going well.
And when we look at those productivity numbers, they actually are very similar to the productivity numbers that we saw before starting to work at home, which I think is very good, which is also attributed to the flexibility of our people. You see also in the log-on numbers that people make much longer hours. I mean they log-on the same time, but they log-off much later. So there's a lot of working in the evening. And we check very regularly with our managers across the company of how we are doing. And there's a lot of virtual teamwork going on, even leading to virtual drinks in Friday afternoon where they all sit together in front of the camera with a glass of beer.
The next question is from Mr. Joe Quatrochi.
Yes, it's Wells Fargo. I was hoping you could kind of give us some more color on the strong Memory bookings that you reported. Can you help us understand are you starting to see demand largely driven by NAND or DRAM? And then to the extent that you can help us understand what was EUV in terms of the Memory bookings? Was that also a driver this quarter?
Yes. EUV, the last question is, it's really Logic. So very few EUV orders. That will come -- sorry, very few EUV orders for Memory, and that will come. So it is predominantly Logic. And the strong Memory bookings are -- I actually said it earlier. They are also the result of what at least we're seeing in terms of utilization of our systems in the Memory space, both in DRAM and in NAND. The trend, we -- the cautious trend that we saw at the end of Q4 of last year has continued in terms of increased utilization throughout Q1 until -- very recently until last week. So the trends are upward. So that explains why Memory bookings are going up also because customers see this also.
That's helpful. And then you talked a lot about what ASML is doing in terms of services to meet your customers' needs. Is there any kind of updated thoughts you can give us on -- I think you talked about EUR 3.4 billion for revenue for 2020 for services? And should we think about, like the first quarter or March quarter being kind of a low point for services this year?
Yes. Yes. I think we mentioned why Q1 was about EUR 100 million below our guidance and we gave you the reason for that. It is the lack of machine time that we had on particular upgrades that we were doing. And as a result of that that will fall into Q2. And other than that, in the installed base business still looks good. So the number that we talked about in the past is a number that has still relevance with all the caveats that we talk about in the entire call around the current uncertainty. Indeed, the EUR 3.4 billion is the number that we talked about on the Q4 call. So that's a good recollection of what we mentioned there.
The next question is from Mr. C.J. Muse.
Yes, Evercore ISI. I guess, Peter, first question, just to follow-up on the Memory side of things. It looks like ex-EUV, your orders are up, like 80% Q-on-Q. And so curious on that front, is that more NAND versus DRAM? And then on the last call, you talked about optionality to a stronger DRAM recovery into the second half of the year. I'm curious what your thoughts are as it relates to that potential reality?
Yes. I think when I answer, you have to take into consideration that customers, for instance, do, do relocations. So we might be shipping to a DRAM fab, a leading-edge machine that is replacing a machine that was on a pedestal that now goes to NAND. So there is some relocation there. But I would say that the Memory intake is driven by DRAM. And then with the caveat that we do obviously see some relocation out of DRAM into 3D NAND. But I would say if you would have to answer and say, where is the -- what's the emphasis, the emphasis is on DRAM.
Okay. Great. Very helpful. My follow-up, can you speak directly to how you're thinking about cycle time improvements on EUV? And as part of that, what will it take to get the ability for you to have double-digit shipments on a quarterly basis, which it looks like you need to do to hit that 35-unit forecast? And I guess as part of that, should we be thinking about the potential for customers to expedite again in the coming quarters and therefore, perhaps maybe revenue on 1 or 2 tools gets delayed into '21?
Well, on the last point, I mean it's April 15, so I don't know what's going to happen in December. So that's not what our customers tell us today. Our customers tell us today that they want the 35 systems. On the cycle time improvement and our ability to ship double-digit numbers, we are planning and without any supply chain or capacity disruptions because of COVID, we will ship double-digit numbers in this quarter in Q2 of 2020. So we have that capability. And when you look at this, and let's say, customers have a number of 36 units that they want, it's not 9999 every quarter. That's not how it works. And it works when do the customers need it because it's their ramp schedule that is going to determine when we ship.
For instance, in Q1, we only shipped 4 systems, but we planned before the COVID-19 impact, 6 in Q1, not that we couldn't make more, it just -- it also has to do it with when the customers need the machines, yes? So we will do double-digit in this quarter, yes? And actually, it means that we have the capability, which is, of course, very important to get to the 35 numbers. I think the cycle time reductions -- and was one of the earlier comment, we have some absenteeism in the factory. We're dealing with that. I think we will get to the cycle time reductions as planned and we will have the capability to do 35 systems this year.
The next question is from Mr. Krish Sankar.
Krish from Cowen. I have 2 of them. First one, Peter, to the extent you can answer this, what do you think you would ship in terms of DUV units this year either in absolute unit numbers or relative to 2019?
Relative to 2019, you will see -- that's just a general comment. I'm not going to guide you on a specific Deep UV number. But as we said before and I have said for some time now that when you look at EUV, EUV is cannibalizing, you could say, some multiple patterning layers. So there will be a reduction of Deep UV systems in 2020 and that will be more than compensated by the sales number in EUV. And that's logical. That's what we've always said. EUV is there to cannibalize multiple pattern and layers. Now how much that in the end will be, it's going to be somewhat now lower. It's not going to be significant, but that is the trend. It's a trend going forward. As you can also see from our 2025 Capital Market Day information, where you also see that in 2025, the Deep UV numbers are lower than what they used to be and that's because EUV is going to replace those.
Got it. Got it. That's helpful, Peter. And then as my follow-up, if I look at your -- for the last 2 quarters, if I look at your Memory shipments and compare it, it's very similar to the sales into China. So a, is most of your Memory shipments in the last 2 quarters coming mainly from China? And b, how do you expect that to trend over the next couple of quarters?
Well, it's -- as you know, and I said, we actually mentioned that the shipments in Q1 were impacted by the COVID-19 crisis in China, especially Wuhan, where there's a Memory customer there, yes? Well, you can imagine, we didn't ship anything to that customer. The other customer took a few tools according to plan. But the majority, of course, of everything that we shipped, was outside China.
The next question comes from Mr. Pierre Ferragu.
It's Pierre at New Street. So Peter and Roger, from your prepared remarks, I understand like the near-term of COVID-19 played out clearly not so bad for you and your value chain and that you're managing very well logistics disruption and more like the supply side of the story. Now, of course, my next concern is what happens next. And I hear you that we have very little visibility, so it's very -- it's impossible to make like a near-term forecast. But my question would be like a what-if question. So let's assume that in the second half of the year, demand for PCs, servers and smartphones are down 20%, 25% year-on-year. If that happens at a high level, how do you see your clients impacted -- are impacted? And how do you see that's impacting ASML?
And I have 2 specific like question marks in mind. One is, in that kind of scenario, would your clients push out EUV orders? Or do you think they need to take orders anyway because they need to take your supply of the technology? And then the second one I had in mind was what about a very steep decline risk in DUV because I imagine that if volumes are not where they were expected when rollout plans were made 6 months ago, I would expect a lot of reuse of DUV tools as node migrations continue.
Let me first answer your question, how does it impact ASML on a certain scenario? Basically, I couldn't answer that. I would be a bit mean and say, that's your work, not mine, yes? But...
Point taken, point taken.
So -- but what I would answer is that if you don't know where you're going, you'd better be flexible, yes? And this is what we're organizing. We're organizing for flexibility in the supply chain. As you know, 80% or 80% plus is in the supply chain. That means that we -- very like with every crisis, we hardly ever saw cancellations. We saw pushouts. So it basically means you would be looking at in the supply chain financing of working capital, which is also particularly important in the context of the answer I gave to a question earlier, what do you want to do in the supply chain, which I think is an integral supply chain problem, which includes our customers. I mean they cannot do without supply in the end either. So it's a working capital issue, which I think is manageable.
I think from a flexibility point of view, we have a lot of cost flexibility here with our variable cost on labor. It was a lot of variable cost, it's like variable income to our people, which, of course, when the business goes down, that will go down also. I don't think there will be a lot of pushouts for EUV orders. What our customers are telling us now. And when I listen well to them, they are not blind. They see that the impact on GDP will be recessionary. And that will very likely have an impact on consumer spending and on the consumer electronics. What they do notice is that the customers of our customers are not blind either that the demand on the leading-edge Logic, which includes 5- and 7-nanometer is still strong.
I mean our customers tell us every time, every week that we talk to them, please stay on target with your shipments of your leading-edge machines. Now if data centers would require 25% less service, which, by the way, if you think about it, it's probably that it's -- then something very bad has actually happened because we need more data center capacity and not less, yes? So -- and that's where the high compute goes, yes? So I think push out of EUV orders, it can always happen. I don't think it's going to be significant. We're not planning for an Armageddon scenario where the entire world economy crumbles into an abyss. We were not planning that. I don't think it's going to happen either. I think it's a low likelihood.
So all in all, I think we're flexible enough. I think EUV, with the -- with key focus on leading-edge solutions that our customers' customers need is going to be relatively safe. And I think reuse of Deep UV tools is -- the story of reuse of Deep UV tools has always been very prominent in every cycle. But you need to realize that when you look at leading edge, it's not only EUV, it's leading-edge Deep UV, but you need Deep UV not so much for the geometrical shrink, you need it for overlay, yes? And that is very important for those new leading-edge devices. So the overlay requirements for an NXT:2050, which will be our leading-edge immersion tool, is significantly different than in 1980, because in 1980 we will not be able to do what the 2050 should be doing to make sure that they can support our leading-edge nodes. So reuse will be limited. It simply has to do with the fact that the requirements that are needed for leading-edge nodes for Deep UV tools are different and they are also more difficult for the older generations to achieve.
The next question is from Mr. Mehdi Hosseini.
Peter, going back to the topic of where we're going to, I'm still confused. You talked about improvement in the supply chain. You talked about sequential revenue growth that could exceed 50%, but you're not providing a guide, not even for Q2. What is it out there? And we are halfway through April. What is it out there that makes you uncomfortable given what you see in the next 2 months? I'm not asking about the second half, I'm asking just the Q2. And I have a follow-up.
Yes. No, I fully understand your question, Mehdi, because we always say, well, we have very long lead times in the supply chain, which is true for the critical suppliers like, for instance, ZEISS. We have, in the end, if you take Tier 2 also thousands of suppliers, which some of them have lead times which are a lot shorter. We've had delays in EUV in Q1 of a couple of weeks because one particular supplier couldn't provide rings, your flow rings, which is not the most advanced part that we need. But if you don't have it, you don't have it. So this is where our concern comes from. It's the tiered supply chain, which is not always that visible to us.
We have tiered suppliers coming from Malaysia, Mexico, you name it, and they are supplying to our Tier 2 and Tier 1 suppliers. And if that supply basically stops then even a part that has a relatively short lead time doesn't arrive on time, and we get a delay. I think, ultimately, we get those parts, it's just a delay. And if we tell you, if we give you a number and we get a significant delay in some of those short lead-time parts, we cannot ship tools and that can be significant. You may remember that the 3400C now is EUR 130 million tool. That's a big number. And I don't want to give you a range from x billion to y billion. That doesn't make sense, yes? So this is where it comes from, yes?
And I think it is really based on the experience that we've had in Q1 where we were able to manage it, but we did see some delays. And since we cannot judge what the impact will be of these governmental orders in different parts of the world, we cannot assess what that risk is. But it's there because we've seen it. We've been able to manage it with a lot of creativity. It doesn't give me any assurance or certainty that we will be able to manage it going forward always. So this is where it comes from.
Very clear. And if you could give us an update on Hermes multi-beam shipment. I think the beta tool was supposed to be shipped to the customer in Q1. And what's the update there?
Yes. I think it was ready. It was in packing. And then the shelter in place in the Bay Area, because that's where it comes from, it comes from San Jose, just stopped the tool. So it was -- that the trucks were pulling up and they had to return.
But do you see the trucks are going to resume their destination in Q2? Or they're going to be more...
Well, I think -- listen, I mean what we are doing now, we are assessing whether we and this particular tool falls under the definition of a critical business. And actually, we're looking into what our possibilities are to actually ship the tool. And I would love to ship the tool ASAP because it's ready and the customer wants it. So let's see how things go.
The next question is from Mr. Mitch Steves.
This is Mitch Steves from RBC. Just had a question on the services business. I'm trying to understand it a little better. So I'm guessing you guys are able to do some of this remotely. But can you maybe walk us through how much revenue you guys think will come back? How much revenue you may have lost in Q1? And then how it would work if, like, we get out of the shelter in place, say, earlier? Would that be a lot of pent-up demand where you see a snap-up? Or does the services business kind of actually just get hit and some of the revenues are lost?
I think the revenue, Mitch, that we lost in Q1, as we mentioned, is around EUR 100 million and it's primarily related to certain upgrades. I would say it's not even related to COVID-19 in particular. It was related to the fact that we didn't get sufficient machine time from customers. So that revenue we missed for Q1, we'll get it in Q2. There's hardly any doubt in my mind, we will get that in Q2. And other than that, I don't think there is going -- as far as we can see right now, we don't see any anomalies. So at this stage, still on track for the EUR 3.4 billion in IBM revenue that we talked about in the previous quarter.
As we also mentioned in the video, and as Peter talked about in the introduction, we are deploying new technologies, right? So of course, we're less able than we were in the past to have people go from Veldhoven from Wilton, et cetera, and go to the customer locations for obvious reasons, for the travel restriction and what have you. But by using artificial -- by using virtual reality, augmented reality type technology, we are able to support the huge local support teams that we have with very specialized knowledge that we have at the different hubs. And in that way, so far, we think we're still well positioned to keep up providing the service and the upgrade work that we need to do.
One additional comment here, it's more anecdotal, but actually, we were preparing as a kind of a prototype project somewhere deep in the organization, how could we support remotely through augmented reality and HoloLens, basically people sitting 6,000 kilometers from the actual service action. And then we have now over-the-shoulder 3D augmented reality support that service engineers with 6 months of training that would normally have to do this after a 2- to 3-year training, we're now operating and doing service actions with the support of experts that were sitting 6,000 kilometers away and basically providing them with 3D images, how they should do the service actions and it works. So this is also something that amazed us also. And actually, our service levels, we keep up all our service levels up in terms of maintenance and servicing of our tools, which I think is a really good achievement.
The next question is from Mr. Achal Sultania.
It's Crédit Suisse. Peter, maybe one question from my side, on the services. You mentioned that so far, you've tried to do a lot of remote working and local team assisting to get maintenance and upgrades done. How should we think about the EUV installation part? Do you have teams in place at customer fabs or at customer locations to make sure that EUV installation can still go ahead as per plan, at least during Q2, if travel restrictions are not lifted?
Yes, that's a very good question. Luckily, we have 3 main sites where we do EUV and that's also the sites where we have most of our service engineers. I mean we have to think of 1,000 plus. So there is a lot of experience there. And this is exactly where this remote support comes in. We do send people across the globe, but that's where we have hundreds of people, hundreds of people traveling, it's now probably not more than 50, 60. They have to go into 2 weeks of quarantine. They have to get a special travel visa. So we need to plan and prepare this much more rigorously than we did in the past. And this is where we do send experts. But I think a lot of these service actions that are not of the really topnotch expert level are being trained and being done with the kind of novel remote support technologies that I just mentioned. So it's a combination of both. And I think we'll be able to do all the installations. We have been able to actually do that and we are. So yes, we still do travel. It's not going back to 0, but it's a fraction of what we were able to do, but it works
And maybe one follow-up for Roger. Then, Roger, on the services side, you mentioned EUR 3.4 billion is still in sight for the full year. Can you help us understand like how much of that -- within that will be EUV specifically? And also how much of losses for EUV services can we expect? I know you mentioned breakeven, hopefully, by the end of the year. Because the thing that I'm trying to understand is how much of a drag on services gross margin has EUV been last year or maybe this year, just to help us get to what the number should be going forward.
Let me be very short on that. So for this year, I think quarter-over-quarter, what -- so if you compare the last quarter, so Q4 to today, that would probably account for 0.5% in gross margin. So the improvement in EUV this year is going to account for about 0.5% in gross margin for the year. So that's an answer to that question. In general, if you look at the EUR 3.4 billion, it's about 50-50 in terms of regular service and maintenance, if you like, and upgrades. And the regular service and maintenance, EUV is still a fairly small number, given, of course, the installed base for Deep UV is so much larger. But the impact on the gross margin percentage, about 0.5%.
All right. We have time for one last question. If you were unable to get through on this call and still have questions, please feel free to contact the ASML Investor Relations department with your question.
The last question is from Mr. Andrew Gardiner.
It's Andrew from Barclays. Just a follow-up, really, on the comments you guys have been making on the Memory tool utilization. Peter, you said you've seen it improve sort of from late fourth quarter into first quarter and just up this quarter. I'm just wondering, how much flex do you think the industry still has to continue to grow bit output by raising utilization? And when are they going to get close to full utilization, again, based on the current trends? Obviously, I know we've got the global caveats. But just if trends were to continue, how close are we to that full utilization where they'd need to start adding capacity again?
I think that will be this quarter. When I look at the trend, it's going to be -- it's pretty close. There's still a little bit of underutilization to go, but it will be this quarter. Sorry to be short, Andrew, but it is what it is.
That's just fine. The best answer.
Do you have a second question, Andrew?
No. I'll let you close quickly then.
All right. Thank you. Now on behalf of ASML, I would like to thank you all for joining us today. Operator, if you could formally conclude the call, I'd appreciate it. Thank you.
This concludes the ASML 2020 First Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.