my first question was actually just a clarification, in terms of putting in context that $2 billion in channel inventory reduction.
and so we're optimistic about attracting even more customers with that.
thank you.
could we have the next question please?
and one for luca.
i do think that we will be really happy with the new to iphone customers that we see from here, because of the early returns we've had.
the question on services, when we look at our services business, obviously growing very well across the board.
and then i have a follow-up for tim.
and that a question for tim, appreciate the optimism around longer-term iphone unit growth, but with developed market penetration in anywhere from 60% to 80%, the growth is going to have to come from new markets.
you talked about india.
as i talked about on the comments, the iphone 6s rate, upgrade rate is slightly higher than the iphone 5s, but lower than the iphone 6.
but the other multiplier in that equation is obviously the size of the installed base.
the net of the idea is that i think there's still really, really good business in the developed markets, so i wouldn't want to write those off.
it is already the third largest smart phone market in the world, but because the smart phones that are working there are low-end, primarily because of the network and the economics, the market potential has not been as great there.
it looks like you are introducing the se, and at least on a sequential basis, you not calling for any uplift, even adjusting for channel inventory, and asps i presume will go down and certainly it's impacting gross margins as you've guided to.
could you respond to, a, why you're not seeing the elasticity, and b, is the analogy with the ipad mini completely misplaced?
that would affect the unit compare that you maybe thinking about.
i don't see that.
i'm wondering if it was only a modest difference between the 5s and the 6, how big a difference are we really seeing in terms of replacement cycles across the last three generations, and maybe you could help us, if the replacement cycle was flat this year relative to what you saw last year, how different would your results have been this quarter in the first half?
there's a lot there.
thanks for the question.
the vast majority of the weakness in the greater china region sits in hong kong, and our perspective on that is, it's a combination of the hong kong dollar being pegged to the us dollar, and therefore it carries the burden of the strength of the us dollar, and that has driven tourism, international shopping and trading down significantly compared to what it was in the year ago.
as i  back up from this and look at the larger picture, i think china is not weak, as has been talked about.
it's great that it's growing, but longer-term, i would view its role as more creating an ecosystem that supports the high margins on the hardware, as opposed to independently driving earnings.
it's huge, and we felt it was important to spell that out.
okay, and then going back to the upgrades of the installed base, you have clearly mentioned that you've  pulled forward some demand, which makes sense, but there does seem to be a lengthening of the upgrade cycle, particularly in the us.
i think in retrospect, you could look at it and say, maybe the appropriate measure is more to the 5s, and i think everybody intuitively thought that the upgrades were accelerated with the 6, and in retrospect, when you look at the periods, they clearly were.
we will go to rod hall with jpmorgan.
as you think about where you thought things were going to head last quarter, when you reported to us, and how it's changed this quarter, obviously it's kind of a disappointing demand environment.
and tim, maybe more broadly how you see the tax situation for apple looking forward?
some of them are around internal debt financing, which is not something that we use, so we don't expect any issue there.
