this is lisa.
we expect the seasonality of semicustoms to be similar to prior years.
or if not, when do you expect demand will rise to match supply?
yes.
and so you'll see three products in the third quarter in terms of overall product momentum.
thanks for taking my question.
it's actually going well, so we're on track for some of the important milestone deliveries that we had.
they're -- very much, as you know, they take a while for them to come to fruition, but we feel good about the model which is partnering with folks that need high-performance technology.
and we'll continue to work those deals as we go through the next couple of quarters.
i was hoping that you could just help me with the accounting of the semicustom design wins.
so if i remember properly, there was two that you expect in the back half of this year, and then one -- i thought it was the first half of next year.
thank you.
so any color around that would be really helpful.
and so i think it's just a time of a lot of activity around the zen and the different zen product families.
but it would imply q4 down 16%/17% sequentially, and actually down on an absolute basis, lower than i would've thought.
so we've been pleased with how it played out certainly in our second-quarter revenue and the third quarter revenue guidance.
yes, so if you're talking about the notebook computing business, actually we are kind of pleased with how it performed.
you are sort of in a unique position because you are both kind of a partner with arm as an arm licensee.
and does that change your view of how you might be able to monetize your own ip in the future?
i'm not sure we would call them a competitor.
i think the applications that need it, whether you are talking about consumer applications or enterprise cloud applications, are growing.
and i've got a quick follow-on.
our view is oem business looks okay.
even in that framework, we believe we can grow our computing and graphics business on the strength of the products.
so that's the way would characterize pcs.
and then lastly, guys, i apologize, but devinder, now that you've got revenue growth behind you and you've got some momentum here, how do we think about the gross margin progression from here and kind of the puts and takes?
how should we think about gross margin by segment in q3?
and maybe follow-up to that, do you expect the gross margin of the new custom design wins ramping this quarter to have better or worse margins than your game console business?
yes, i think that's well-put.
and then my follow-up question is -- you guys talked about the zen products at computex and it's on track for launching in the first half of 2017. can you talk about the impact on r&d expense and maybe on gross margin on the preparation of this launch over the next few quarters?
for q4 with an extra week in the fiscal quarter, should we expect opex to be at the high end of levels, that that will be enough -- that $350 million?
in the meantime, we continue to get delivery of wafers for the products that we need in line with the product demand and mix of business.
i mean, so how do you think about that?
we will look for opportunities to ensure that we are strategically placing the big bets in r&d, and both on the cpu and the gpu side.
christopher danely, citigroup.
and what we're seeing now is the opportunity, as we go into the seasonally stronger half of the year on both the pc side and graphics side, on top of that with some new product launches, we believe that we will end up growing year-over-year.
this is gabriel ho calling in for ambrish.
okay, great.
so, i would leave the details for a more -- as we go -- get closer to the vega launch date.
that concludes today's teleconference.
