please proceed with your question.
thank you very much.
the timing of launch of each, and in particular in the server market, the focus, whether that be enterprise, or whether that be cloud-based.
thank you.
they're bringing up their platforms and software, and we're very pleased with how smoothly it's coming up, actually.
but there's a lot of interest in the cloud space around what we're doing with radeon pro and on the server gpu side.
certainly.
our next question is coming from mark lipacis from jefferies.
please proceed with your question.
great.
and how do you grow that, going forward?
sure, mark.
thank you.
i think if you look at a 14-week quarter, i think, john, you're right, it depends upon many factors.
on the revenue side, i would say looking at it overall, there's not much of an impact, as the extra week falls during the holiday season, when a large portion of our operations and our customers are in shutdown mode.
but as we see revenue growth and as we've seen progress over the last couple of quarters, i think you've also seen us increase our r&d spend.
and then within the computing and graphics business, i would expect growth on both the graphics, as well as the computing side.
yes, i think on the semi custom side, david, i will say that we previously announced three, and that's the number that we'll talk about today.
i will say that we have some very good active discussions on   future products and applications, and we'll update more as we get further along.
we did catch up towards the end of the quarter.
i think it's a very competitive market.
let me start with that.
i think, relative to our second sourcing or our supply sourcing flexibility, i think we make it on a product-by-product basis, based on where we are in the business.
for my follow-up, i just want to get some clarification on the timing of the summit ridge and zen launches.
so i think our expectation is, we may ship some production samples in q4, but the volume launch for desktop will be in q1, and that's consistent with everything that we've planned into the business.
in your prepared remarks, you mentioned semi custom's decline and computing graphics to be up.
looked like you're guiding cash to be up in 4q, and looks like you have some excess cash after the transactions you've done in the quarter, and looks like you might be up over your $1 billion target balance.
how do you plan on using the excess cash, or where would you reinvest that cash?
operator, we'll take two more questions, please.
we're fairly well-known by that customer set.
and then, how are you thinking about as you think about bringing that chip to market, when will you make it available for third party benchmarks and sort of get a broader marketing program beyond the launch you've done?
congrats on a great quarter, and nice to see it all coming together.
perhaps the past two quarters' growth in eesc might be outpacing  expectations for consoles.
that does conclude today's teleconference.
