in terms of your first question on the acquisitions, we'll start to see -- in the current run rate you have the bulk of, like opendns and everything else.
ittai, this is chuck.
we have a rack version of ucs.
i think that's what's going on right now.
kelly, on the gross margin question?
so, i would say a normalized view on the gross margin would have been closer to 64.5%.
and i think the thing i'm most excited about longer term is that we see a path to deploying that model across the rest of our portfolio.
but i think that we've executed well this quarter.
what we did see is we saw our data center switching revenue growth increase.
and, again, that's $4 billion and it grew double digits in orders.
on the routing business, we've seen a few things.
clearly there is a macro issue that we're dealing with.
can you help us to understand what were the factors to drive it higher?
and, again, congratulations to you and your team.
again, the thing to keep in mind -- true, we did guide with the extra week which came in, in line -- but just, again, a couple things.
that is also a driver.
but, again, the strength we're seeing this quarter mostly came from just improvements in productivity.
if i get that correctly you had revenues up 31% there.
and then if we exclude that very strong performance on that segment, what did the rest of enterprise look like in terms of, so you were down 2% over all?
i'll start.
let me just clarify the question.
sorry about that, pierre.
on the rest of the portfolio, to your question on service provider, we're seeing, again, the slowdown from just the overall service provider capex spend.
but i do think that our teams have done a really good job here.
thank you for taking the question.
mark moskowitz,  barclays.
and then is there any change in terms of public cloud versus private cloud related to margin, either from a gross margin perspective or operating margin perspective that we should be aware of?
thank you.
if you look at what we declared and we stated our strategy is around cloud, it really is focused on enabling what we believe is going to be the long-term desire of our customers, which is to operate in a hybrid cloud model.
and we said that we're going to do three primary things.
so, the differentiation is not much there.
yes, i think when we hit it last quarter it was probably roughly $2 billion.
or 15% of our service provider revenue?
we just don't disclose that.
so, coming into that earnings call, we had seen a very tough close to the quarter from an orders perspective.
and i think that led us to a very cautious tone.
great.
so if you could talk how you're countering the threat or the substitution effect of those web-scale customers building or buying unbranded switches, rather than your products.
maybe just highlight if you feel like that relationship is still on track for this $1 billion by 2018. the reason i ask, obviously ericsson had a very soft march quarter.
we're focused on the execution and operational excellence, and at the same time we're focused on transitioning our business and investing in the future, which i think was displayed by our progress in the different areas that i highlighted during the call today.
i think that, again, if you look at our success in security and collaboration, next-gen data center, the meraki cloud networking platform, and overall in our transition to software and subscription; i think we're on that journey.
we now plan to close the call.
