yes, hello, guys.
i have one follow-up.
got it.
what's your mix of 3d nand that you're shipping now and when do you see the transition and the bit growth start to open up for you on the nand side?
so it's a pretty significant ramp from here over the next couple of quarters.
thank you.
but you've got a lot of elements moving in the right direction.
and yet, you've got gross margins that are likely going to be down sequentially.
again, on the pricing environment as you noted, we're seeing -- there's obviously encouraging things going on in the channel.
we also articulated we're making a lot of good progress on qualifying and resegmenting those more advanced technology nodes in the right market segments.
and the decisions that we made with respect to the cost savings program were deliberated very thoughtfully debated and at the end, we believe we're at the right balance to both help improve the financial performance of the company, while at the same time, not jeopardizing any of the company's potential in terms of revenue opportunities.
and our next question comes from the line of romit shah from nomura securities.
so again, we want to make sure we're giving you what we believe is realistic guidance and guidance that is achievable and we're going to have to see what plays out in the markets overtime.
and then just on the prequal expenses that are boosting opex this quarter, is that more one-time in nature or do you expect expenses to remain elevated through the course of the year as you ramp these new products?
i would tell you that in q4, they are particularly high relative to what we've seen over the recent history as a reflection of what mark said.
i guess i had two questions.
and so, we're not going to give you bit guidance for the august quarter, but we do think that these data points will hopefully give you comfort that in fact the transition really is occurring slightly more rapidly than we have expected it to occur.
so that net of the partner contribution you'd be in the $4 billion to $4.5 billion range.
are you confident these changes are going to be enough to get you back to profitability next year?
thanks for taking my question.
again, it's really challenging to give you a forecast of what's going to happen with the pricing environment.
but in terms of aggregate revenues, we would expect it as we move through these qualifications that you're going to see the mobile business maintain or slightly improve in terms of a percentage of its overall revenue to the business.
good afternoon.
is that a positive or a negative at this point relative to the old pricing agreement?
just any context you can give us around that dynamic?
your 20-nanometer mix and your 3d nand mix is moving higher, so would assume that your blended costs are coming down nicely.
remember that we said the majority of the nand cost reductions occur as we achieve that bit crossover, which is later in the fall of this year.
if you could give us an update there as well?
it's just a matter of a fairly significant ramp across two high volume fabs and taking the time to qualify a full suite of products across all those technologies.
and we think we're making progress.
so we're going to play it out and as we do that, we'll look at lots of different strategic options for the dram business just like we do for the nand business.
got it and then quickly for ernie, how should we think about working capital inventory and accounts receivable?
i think that's a reasonable thing to think about.
no, there's no change.
the migration of dram from 20-nanometer to 1x?
