your line is now open.
great.
sure.
this is brian.
okay.
thanks.
what prompted it was -- we did an in-depth analysis based on the cadence of moving from one process technology node to the next.
i'm now projecting a 63% gross margin for the year.
thank you.
your line is now open.
thanks for taking my question.
but we're seeing some of it on the data center side as well.
what steps can you take this year to help drive more leverage in the model?
thank you.
sure, and first, let me -- if you'll bear with me, let me just take a second to detangle the 2016 numbers, because with the extra work week, the altera acquisition, which includes some one-time costs, and the change in depreciation, it becomes a little hard to, i think, get to the bottom of what's actually happening operationally in the business.
when we add all of that in, we're getting a bit more than the 0.5 points improvement from 2015 to 2016, in terms of our projections.
so, we feel we're delivering what we committed to; and when you put some of these adjustments on top of it, we'll deliver a little bit more.
we're in the midst of a transformation right now, and so we are going through a period where we're weeding and feeding our portfolio.
so, as you said, we just closed.
i guess as my follow-up, you provided a $10 billion capex budget, and now it looks like it's about $500 million lower at the midpoint.
is that principally capacity on the logic side, as opposed to memory, given what we're seeing in the macro environment?
thank you.
i don't think there's anything more to it than that.
no.
thanks so much.
good afternoon.
and then we continued to see strong growth and strong share gain in the networking and telco side.
as you said, we kind of went roughly a year or so without a desktop enterprise upgrade, and especially when you combine coming back now with a refresh -- that refresh being skylake -- the combination of skylake's great performance and great graphics.
hi, guys.
the reuse is something that's been shifting over time, and it gives us a lot of economic benefit.
so, the background on this is, we go through this every 5 to 7 years.
the revenue associated with it is a little harder to calculate.
and just to be totally transparent, the revenue number for altera in q1 is on the order of $400 million.
got it.
this quarter, the december quarter, you saw a modest drop in asps, both sequentially and year over year, which is somewhat of an anomaly for that business.
i'm curious: do you think this was a one-quarter anomaly?
the relative strength -- so, then if you take a look at the cloud space and the enterprise space, we expect those to continue on the trends you've seen over the last few years.
and then you have some of it that goes into inventory, and then ships out over time.
our next question comes from the line of chris danely of citigroup.
and in your full-year forecast, are you implying that we get back to normal seasonality in q2 through q4?
i'd articulate that what we're seeing -- we have a cautious stance as we start the year.
thanks.
but because it's a relatively small business against the backdrop of intel, it's not a big shift in our gross margin.
stacy, one question on the opex side, back to that leverage question: you had a very useful slide at the analyst meeting about how you had dis-invested in some areas, and increased investments in another.
i guess as my follow-up question is just -- any more color you can provide on the channel inventory?
you mentioned that the unit demand was a little weaker than you had expected.
to the question on internal inventory levels, i'd just say we ended q4 with a little more inventory than i was expecting, and a little higher than i'd like.
you'll see it -- if you look on a dollar basis, it will go up in q1 as a result of altera.
it's going to look like a business group, no different than, say, ccg, that does pcs and modems, phones, or dcg that does data center.
so, you should expect it to be fully integrated.
operator, i think we have time for two more questions.
let's see, i think we've got broadwell xeon; it's going to launch in the first half here of 2016. so, that will be the first of the 14-nanometer, or the next 14-nanometer in 2016 is that e5 on broadwell.
i just had a question again on the depreciation change.
