what do they really tell you about and what color can you bring us that we do not necessarily see from where we are?
good to hear from you.
they paused a bit, and you see customers say -- i want to just wait and see what is going on.
and, that is what we based it on.
is what the last three weeks of last quarter led us to relative to this level of uncertainty.
so, i would go with prudent based on what we see right now.
and, i would say that our teams have really executed well over the last couple of quarters as they align with our service providers on those priorities across the portfolio.
i don't think that if you really unpack those numbers over two or three quarters that you are going to see -- you'd be able to delineate a whole lot between what went on with the exception of the enterprise customers prioritizing where they spent their money.
but, i didn't see any fundamental change this quarter in how our customers look at that versus what they have been doing for the last three, four, five, six quarters.
kelly?
so, whether it is our cisco capital offers or for the ability of us to build managed service as a service -- those kind of offers.
i'd say we're making a lot of progress on both of those accounts.
simona, the second part of your question.
but, i will tell you that on the new order side on the data center switching business this quarter we did see slightly positive growth on orders.
my question is now that it has been a few months with the new partnership in ericsson, can you let us know if you've actually had any concrete wins or anything you can [point to] showing up in the ngn segment of reporting?
mark moskowitz, barclays.
i think you summarized it well, chuck.
i think we feel fantastic about the portfolio, and we feel good about what it looks like.
one clarification and one question, chuck.
and, my question is really around apjc, the recovery you are seeing there?
is that sustainable?
they may say, let's wait a couple of weeks.
so, not only being aligned to state on enterprises but moving out and creating a commercial market strategy.
two quick ones.
how you expect that to progress moving forward?
thanks.
we track that business very closely, obviously, and largely what we believe is that it is connected to the broader macro issue.
but, it does not change our flexibility in any way in terms of acquisitions.
how we're building that out as well as our future cash flow.
we have easy access to capital, and again, wanted to share some of that cash back with our shareholders.
as you know, we continually have some price erosion, and we use price as a lever to drive selling.
that is continuing.
i wanted to think a little bit ahead, kelly, just given this extra week that you had in the guidance.
take that out -- that $250 million to $275 million and assume the normal ranges of growth in q4.
and then, in terms of market verticals, i was interested if you could talk a little bit more about your exposure to what we have often called web 2.0 or web-scale operators?
we're having obviously good success with that platform in china.
that tends to be an ongoing -- a longer-term solution that the customers deploy.
again, we're taking things quarter by quarter, but we feel good about where they are there.
we have talked the last couple of quarters about how we had been having success with them.
what i would tell you is that we are currently -- we have a lot of work going on around the future -- the next-generation data center and what the future stacks look like in that data center which will be a combination of infrastructure hardware with a heavy dose of software and orchestration.
the second front is that we are going to make the long-term investments and build our strategy and the architectures and the solutions that our customers need, and i believe that our growth will accelerate as our customers embrace and move towards this next wave of technology that is going to fundamentally change every company and every country around the world.
we now plan to close the call.
