thank you.
is it faster, more aggressive deployment given the capex commentary or is it going to be continued slow, multi-year deployment as your track record and the talk of new technologies suggest?
we do continue to have solid growth in desktop, tablet, we have strength in youtube, particularly video advertising, both in our trueview products and increasingly from google preferred.
but when comparing growth rates, we're obviously at a higher revenue base versus last year.
we've launched several changes to ad formats and tools just a few days ago.
and then on your fiber -- the fiber and the capex question, look, we continue to see fiber as a huge market opportunity.
how should we think about the road map ahead for both increased user engagement with your product in those key verticals, as well as ability for advertiser conversion to lead to more advertising budgets for the company over the medium to long term?
so do you see something like this as a potential revenue driver?
yes, so we definitely -- a core part of improving the user experience for the next many years will be driven by machine learning.
douglas anmuth, jpmorgan.
thank for taking the questions.
we make many, many changes,, and i would look at it holistically.
so to me, that implies strong growth.
i'm wondering if what you're now seeing is finally, as e-commerce and travel and other commerce activities have really become critical material on mobile devices, you're finally starting to see ad budgets really shift over and you're starting to get option dynamics start pick up in mobile search.
for people who choose to opt in over time, we could make sure they see more relevant ads and fewer annoying ones, so effectively put them in better control of the experience they get.
first off, we understand that google shopping in particular continues to see strong growth, and i was hoping you could add color on relative mix or growth rates of pla contrasting with other ad types, along with the adoption of the transactional capabilities.
today, in terms of evolving to a conversational assistant, we have a big head start, people do this.
i've been really enjoying using these products, and we'll get it out to users soon.
that is the context in which we do.
we're being much more thoughtful in how we approach it, and we're building a world-class team so we can do this for our users.
how do you think about that?
i'll start on the second question.
look, we continue to work constructively with regulators.
the second one, sundar, you talked about using machine learning for better suggestions on youtube.
could you just help us all think about what the level of engagement is on youtube right now, whether it's minutes or maybe growth in minutes?
this concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
