thanks.
sure.
i would attribute it to the prime fly wheel.
maybe getting there a little slower than starting point at the us.
we don't forecast, obviously, by segment.
thanks for taking the question.
just wanted to ask you about unit growth overall and if we look back over the last three quarters, you've accelerated it now to a materially higher level than what we saw in 2014 and the first half of 2015, and i realize in 3q last year you had prime day.
and, if there's something different perhaps than what you talked about on international?
also, on aws, can you talk about the underlying drivers here of margins and thinking about that a little bit going forward primary sources of leverage?
for sellers, it means they sell more.
we're very pleased.
but, stepping back with the 64% growth in aws which is now a $10 billion business.
great.
i'll take the first part of your question about active customers.
but, i'll also say that by and large, the largest increases in capital leases is to support the growth of incremental usage of customers we have now and agreements we have now.
and, the second one on the logistics investments, there's been a lot about truck investments and logistics investments.
yes, we have had very strong growth the last two years and earlier obviously on prime growth of members.
so, beyond the awards that the content is winning and the success we're having with amazon particularly amazon originals, we feel that program is working.
but, we think that's working and look forward to bringing a lot of new content to our prime subscriber base.
both to our normal prime subscription and also the monthly plan that you alluded to.
we think it makes sense over the long-term.
you can tell it was a q4 issue.
we will continue to add fulfillment capacity.
this is phil.
on the prime question, we launched prime in the us in 2005. followed that in 2007 with uk, germany, and japan.
is it just a sign of your inability to increase investment in line with revenue growth?
we think there's a lot of room to grow not only in our international countries but also in the us.
over 26% growth in this quarter alone coming off a year where i believe the number was 722 significant new features and services delivered for aws customers last year.
our next question comes from brian pitz of jefferies.
any comments on your business in india?
so, we are solidifying and increasing our investment in india on all fronts.
we're inventing things in india that do not exist in other parts of the world.
we let them do registration, imaging, catalog, uploads, and basic seller training.
maybe talk about the dynamics there and what is it going to take to catch up over time?
we have, as i said earlier, fulfillment network and digital content.
and, maybe talk about how much of aws revenue today is outside of the storage and compute layers.
i'll take your second question first.
so, again, we had margin expansion year-over-year that was quite significant from 12.4% to 23.5%.
just to jump on the usage growth comment, we continue to see really strong usage growth.
there can be mix for products, but by and large, if you see our revenue growth, we're also lowering prices which means that by math we're typically going to be growing usage at a very strong rate.
we know customers love it.
we have prime now.
our next question comes from ben schachter of macquarie equities research.
or, should we expect new types of offerings beyond video and music?
not saying other investments may not go up as well, but that is the one we're focusing on that i called out.
so, really that's a big part of the focus.
there's a number of things that we can do that i think will show up on the bottom line.
