thanks.
sure.
by far the biggest individual thing is the investment in india that we continue to make.
thank you.
please proceed with your question.
great.
we will continue to invest in the business where we are seeing significant customer traction.
it continues to be a large increase for both q3 and q4.
we've talked about fulfillment centers initial startup costs include increase in fixed cost but also variable cost as we train workers and also bring in inventory.
again, the underlying reason for that capacity build is the strength in paid units and even more so in the units that we're fulfilling, driven by our fba program.
this is darin.
in addition to the technologies that make integrations easier and it helps companies move from an on-prem or a hybrid it environment into aws if we're going to continue to do that.
thank you.
there's certainly a lot of people who are using that for groceries and consumable items.
i guess the question is, are these changes designed to just pass through kind of increasing shipping costs or is this more of a net neutral change where really the goal is to try to free up capacity in some of your facilities?
hi, mark.
we will do that, obviously, at the end of next quarter.
i would say we are -- this was in extraordinary step-up as i mentioned in q3 that is tied to very rapid growth in not only paid units but amazon fulfilled units.
we feel very confident we're looking forward to a great holiday not only for customers but also for sellers.
there's going to be a lot of winners in the space, as we said, but we are very happy with our position and the customer reception to our products.
i guess when you look at fourth-quarter guidance and you back out aws, it suggests that margins are -- on the core business are going to be pretty down versus last year.
as far as the continuation of the investment and into next year, i cannot give you as much color on that today.
we are experiencing a ramp-up, if you will, in the second half of this year, particularly tied again to the fulfillment center and expanded also the video content spend.
we believe that is working.
to the extent that we're in the midst of this investment cycle, would you say we're in sort of the earlier or later stages?
the investment that we are seeing is a step-up versus what we have experienced in particularly the first half of this year and the last half, the second half of last year, which i mentioned.
two questions.
gets information that they need when shopping for vehicles offsite or shopping for parts and accessories on-site.
your comment on -- your question on grocery and physical stores, i can't comment on any rumors or speculations there might be regarding that.
our next question comes from the line of ben schachter with macquarie.
are they diverging meaningfully versus the past?
nothing specific on the wage pressure front.
i'm sorry.
we are very encouraged by what we're seeing in india, but it is certainly very early on still.
