thank you.
your line is now open.
kelly, marilyn.
a little more color on that is that every geography around the world experienced positive enterprise growth.
commercial was up 5%.
so outside of sp and emerging, we saw fairly consistent demand.
hi, guys.
couple things from me.
as we expand that portfolio across we can (inaudible).
yes.
sam, we'll go ahead and take the next question, please.
your line is now open.
and just more broadly, how are you thinking about the tradeoff between margins and revenue growth?
next question, please?
i'll make some initial comments and again pass it to kelly.
so there is a significant amount of innovation the teams are working on there over the next several quarters as well.
i think you said it well.
thank you very much.
revenue being flat is clearly below the recent growth rate, and the gross margin is also down a fair amount sequentially.
so we obviously, are calling out the weakness we saw from a demand perspective in q4 relative to sp and emerging countries.
i'll give you a quick example.
and i guess i'd like kind of your view -- it seems like with new products in that category, that maybe that, that category at some point becomes pretty spring-loaded, as at least we would expect the valuation units to be shipped in and pent-up demand to develop.
thanks, chuck.
i was wondering, has it been compounded by brexit, or was that kind of built in and you actually didn't see much of an impact?
but we remain very committed there.
yes, our next question is from mark moskowitz with barclays.
i wanted to ask a follow-up around the restructuring.
the orchestration capability that we talked about with cloud center, which is from the cliqr acquisition, combined with the knowledge that we're going to be able to provide the customers through tetration.
and then just one small one.
and presuming the mix of legacy in the data center is now smaller than aci, would you expect the switching business overall to grow moving forward?
or are there offsets that could cause that to vacillate going forward?
and our orders there were -- i think grew in the data center switching business, were up mid single-digits.
on the revenue side.
and i'd say the other major change from that long-term guidance was certainly our expectation of the data center business, and that market has changed.
so we see that being another opportunity for us going forward in the routing space.
so we believe that there's innovation that we can bring that will lead us to a refresh opportunity in the core, and we think that's largely going to be driven around security.
and we're seeing some real early examples.
and then finally, just to reiterate, our long-term strategy to create greater value for our customers and our shareholders, while ensuring that we're also making the decisions for cisco's long-term success, will remain at the forefront.
we now plan to close the call.
and we thank you very much for joining today's call.
