first question, ernie, for you on the pricing front.
thank you.
yes.
and certainly, the customers are beginning to ask for longer term price commitments, which is in my mind always a good thing.
thank you.
and so, as a result of its actual impact in our fiscal quarter, with part of it already completed and we're in negotiations for others, i think that the trap we want to avoid is presuming that whatever the latest pricing news is gets retroactively applied across the entire quarter, because that's certainly not the environment that we're living in.
and then a clarification on your comment that micron will be above the cagr that it provided for dram and [n] bit growth in fy17.
that's very helpful.
our next question comes from timothy arcuri with cowen.
okay.
so let me try to frame that for you a little bit.
and we would expect pre-qual expenses to moderate, such that we should be in that range of $600 million plus or minus, so we'd probably mid point around $600 million a few quarters -- maybe a couple quarters higher, a couple quarters a little bit lower, under the new framework for recording opex.
dram question here.
thanks.
okay, thank you.
so it seems like the -- it seems like that the inventory is increasing at a faster clip than revenue, so just wanted to get a sense in terms of any concerns you see there?
yes, i think you have a couple things.
that will cap out here in the next quarter or so, and then you'll see a normalization and a flow through of that as well.
yes, to be honest, we feel pretty good about where we sit, given the trends in the marketplace as well, and we don't feel quite as much urgency as we might under different market conditions.
and so we're being very careful and monitoring that very carefully.
good afternoon.
nand cost per bit was actually up slightly in q4.
and should we anticipate an acceleration of cost per bit starting here in the first quarter, especially i think as you mentioned you'd get 3d bit crossover over 2d?
great.
i think probably going to wait another quarter before we give you a little bit more precision on what the --  when the bit crossover might be.
just following on that prior question regarding nand cost per bit and all of the mix issues, can you just take that one step forward and talk about maybe how the storage business unit starts to recover in terms of profitability?
thanks very much.
server probably next, and then followed up with mobile and client.
sorry, no, gross margin (multiple speakers).
and i think we're heading where you think you are, where we ought to be, but it can take a little while to play out through the financials.
i think you put your finger on a piece of it, which is that the volatility in this business, i think we can conclude is going to be less going forward.
notwithstanding the fact that we have a good operating relationship with inotera, we believe that there is more value we can bring as sole owners than as board members and operational partners.
yes, thanks for taking my question.
and in that context, how should we think about the incremental capex requirements for inotera, in the context of your comment that inotera would help with free cash flow accretion?
so that's part of the engine of the significant bit growth that we've contemplated and forecast.
thank you for that.
and then, as a follow-up, have you given or can you give an absolute number for depreciation for either the quarter or the fiscal year?
and we would look at those in the context of, everything else that's going around.
