looking at your guidance for growth, year-over-year growth in revenue in 2016, you are ending with the last quarter your game console revenues down year over year.
game consoles -- we see units going up 2016 to 2015. we've also said in the enterprise embedded and semi-custom segment that we will be ramping some new design revenue in the second half of 2016.  so we see that as a positive growth driver.
and then if you look overall at our computing and graphics business, we do believe even in a down pc market that we have the opportunity to gain share as a growth vector in computing and graphics.
okay.
yes.
so certainly we've seen some sequential improvement in the second half of 2015 and we look forward to those product releases in 2016.
ian ing, mkm partners.
great.
and the guidance specifically for q1 of 2016 is 32%.
so for the year, i'm not giving guidance today.
lisa, just to follow-up on the last one, on arm servers.
got it.
and as i follow up perhaps a longer-term question, which is what is the strategy to actually get to a meaningful earnings and cash flow growth?
and as the mix is shifting to your embedded products, gross margins are sort of holding around that 30% level, but you're not really able to reduce cost.
and then as we go forward, we have our data center strategy as well as our semi-custom and new markets that will bring additional opportunities.
and we need to continue to work with our customers on design opportunities and moving the platforms into production as we go through the year 2016.
if i can add, lisa, i think the other thing i would add is if you look at a couple of areas that lisa mentioned -- data center in particular, but also the embedded space.
good luck.
thanks for taking my questions.
so it's leading to a stronger product mix, so those are the key factors.
if you look at the past couple of years it's been the case because they are coming off of a strong holiday season.
so i would say that has to be factored into the guidance.
well, if i just looked, you're down 14% and intel down what they are, there is a differential there.
for my follow-up --
the other thing -- just one last clarification.
(multiple speakers)
no, that's free cash flow.
i think there's some -- my observation looking at the product roadmap is there's some pretty big hurdles past: getting polaris on finfet, getting zen on finfet over the next few quarters.
i guess particularly i'm looking at how you balance semi-custom versus discrete gpu?
it seems like quite a bit to take on, given the lower spending levels of the business at a whole and i just wonder how you are prioritizing that versus the guidance for the year?
all right.
thank you.
i think the radeon technologies group has added a lot of focus to our graphics activities.
all right.
i think we have had really a good discussion around where to go there.
and then i think as you go forward to 2016 -- i'm not being that specific about the base business, but i will say i think units will be up.
and i guess piggybacking off that to an earlier question -- this time for devinder on the gross margin side.
so from my standpoint, i want to see how it unfolds in terms of the mix of product, mix of the business before getting into the gross margin.
so i think being first to market, we've gotten a lot of experience on the technology.
steven chin, ubs.
so the overall product capability and performance is good.
that concludes our call for today.
