thank you.
please proceed with your question.
and secondarily, is there any way to characterize what the pricing environment is right now for aws as well?
thanks.
another dynamic of q4 was that, it was a huge fba quarter.
you cut off there.
sure.
hey, thanks very much.
please proceed with your question.
is it devices, or more sortation centers?
is there anything pressuring gross margins we should think about in the fourth quarter?
great, thanks.
one follow-up, and then another question.
and whether q1, whether that should demonstrate some seasonality, versus what we've seen in terms of sequential growth in prior years?
the -- and the operational improvements -- excuse me, the gross margin -- the operating margin year-over-year that we've seen in the aws business has been heavily driven by operating efficiencies, both purchase reductions and purchase prices, and also efficiency in driving greater utilization of the assets that we have.
again, when prime video is used by our prime members, it drives adoption and retention, higher free trial conversion rates, and higher renewal rates for subscribers.
so very pleased with the critical acclaim to the amazon studios content, and we've got a lot of new content coming out this year.
our next question comes from the line of mark mahaney with rbc capital markets.
thanks for your questions.
again, we feel we're very encouraged by the customer response to our offerings in q4.
that -- amazon business now serves more than 200,000 businesses, from small organizations to fortune 500 companies.
so it's still early, but we're encouraged, and we think we're creating some value, a lot of value for our business customers.
and we like the ramp there, and we're continuing to invest in india.
just first, on the north america egm growth, if you could just talk about the 28% there?
and the decel on an easier comp, and whether there's any particular factors within that we should be thinking about?
and then second, last quarter, and i don't want to misquote you, but you said something along the lines of, being able to invest as you would like, and also deliver good profit, and that the pendulum wouldn't swing as far perhaps as it has in the past.
is that statement and thought still hold, as you head into 2016?
we've heard the comments about the number of availability zones that are being launched this year, which is obviously about a big part of driving incremental capacity in that business.
capex, let me start with that first.
capex, as i mentioned, grew quite a bit in 2014. it grew even more to over $9 billion, across all of our capital expenditures and capital leases in 2015. from the new regions, they are not the major driver in any way.
we saw the greatest growth year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter.
the next question comes from brian pitz with jefferies.
i think, as you saw in the release, there are some new devices that take advantage of the underlying service, that we think will be really convenient for sellers, and interesting for device makers.
i don't have any stats for you today.
please proceed with your questions.
any update in terms of number of robots, or how you see that expansion going forward?
on the -- this is phil.
i would say though, that we're much more focused on operating profit dollars, and free cash flow dollars, as we've probably talked about before.
and we're now in more than 25 metropolitan areas for prime now.
so i'm just wondering, if in 4q maybe higher fpa costs or something else in there that led to, maybe an expansion not as great as we saw in prior quarters.
and there is also the dynamic that we were fulfilling more of these units ourselves, at our warehouses because of the fba growth, and the retail growth.
two questions, please.
and then, secondly, just wanted to know a little bit more about restaurant delivery?
so on the echo, we like what -- how echo has done.
and so, this is one more really valuable convenient service we can offer for our prime customers.
first one, shipping costs were higher than we expected.
again, this is all tied in with the increase in fba growth, and the demand from prime members.
