your question, please?
yes.
okay.
i think, if you accept that the cost reductions are on track with what we articulated in our analyst day, really it sort of boils down to what your assumption is relative to the pricing environment.
great.
generally speaking, we're also going to see growth in the server segment as well.
your line is open.
thanks for taking my question.
it seems the automotive market has some good growth in it.
i'm just trying to get a better understanding of the gross margin guide.
i think it's very similar to the answer, of one of the earlier questions, which is we are very confident, and provided some pretty clear visibility into what we think is happening with the cost structure.
and along those lines, can you talk a little bit about, why has the pricing been so weak the last several quarters, and why would it somehow abate going forward, if that's the case?
so i don't think i went there.
thank you.
our next question comes from john pitzer of credit suisse.
hi.
well, we had significant bit growth in nand in the quarter, and typically you would expect that cost reduction associated with that.
and then, when you layer on top of that some of the inventory growth in high margin products -- or what are higher margin products, typically the mobile piece of the business, that was somewhat of a headwind relative to the cost reduction for dram in the current quarter.
got it.
and then one question related to your inventories, like you are holding a little bit longer inventory.
let me just add -- additionally, it's -- we're not taking what we think is any significant risk here.
and in terms of the financing for the inotera acquisition, any updates there?
yes, it is still $5 billion net of partner contribution.
and then with the mobile issue, is that something that you were able to anticipate?
we continue to focus around our costs and our cost competitiveness.
our next question comes from justin li of robert baird.
well, it's -- i don't think i've got anything really new to say about that.
but we would remind everyone that we believe that there's significant technology hurdles, and intellectual property requirements in terms of being a major player in the memory space.
first, on the -- you heard on the dram side, the bit growth was substantially less in the last quarter.
what gives you the confidence that you're going to be ramping successfully on that, given that the -- historically, that you've had some challenges on that?
and the answer there is, we're now a month into the quarter.
but as we get and ramp to mature yields, you'll expect to see somewhere right in the center of that range.
i just wanted to make sure, is that tlc 3d nand, or were you referring to 2d planer tlc as well as part of the lower cost nand that's going to go into ssd [later] this year?
so we have -- we actually have product running through a manufacturing fab today on gen 2, and obviously, like the way that's going as well.
in some cases, more of it, but very, very similar tools.
our next question comes from romit shah of nomura.
could you talk more about that?
my follow-up is expectations for dram bit growth in fy17, under 20%.
relative to mobile inventory, again, it's primarily -- there's a mix of things in inventory.
and a lot of that just revolves around timing and product qualifications that we have high confidence in.
