thanks for taking the questions.
first, on youtube.
thank you.
it's been very well received.
we continue to see great execution there, on a fixed fx basis, as i noted, up 21%.
thank you.
your line is now open.
thanks, carlos.
then on the network side, we have strong growth in programmatic and that carries higher tac than traditional ad buying.
sundar commented quite a bit on cloud.
ruth, i just had one question, a follow-up from a previous one on the regions.
thanks.
and our next question comes from mark mahaney of rbc capital markets.
so, nothing really to call out.
we already had a lot of momentum in this area and in many ways, given the scale at which we have done this internally for us, we view it as an area we are very competent at.
we do think we are competitive across a range of workflows.
it's early days and it's a long-term investment, but bringing on machine learning apis over time through cloud, to our enterprise customers is going to be a huge source of differentiation for us.
our user base is scaling most -- we are also seeing tremendous shift towards mobile.
and then, more specifically, on the fiber side, as you are pointing to, we do expect that to increase throughout the year as we execute on the cities that we've already announced.
it's primarily about continuing to execute on those cities.
and then i've got one follow-up on red.
okay, great.
i have a few.
and then maybe for ruth, you give us a lot of detail on click growth, but i'm just wondering if you can help us all on query growth, just how that's trended since mobile really took off.
how is it trending?
and do you have more room to monetize given where your ad coverage is now?
again, we've invested over many years.
and so, really, when we think through to the roic opportunity compelling, building on investments that we've made and continue to make in a very exciting opportunity.
i have two.
we think there's a lot of opportunity to improve the experience that users have.
and that's where the fiber team is focused.
and then in terms of the change in ad format, as we've talked about on a lot of calls, innovation is core to all we do.
and if not, how should we think about when they will go globally or how you're phasing those changes?
at a high level, how do average tac rates differ on mobile versus desktop?
sundar, first off, you mentioned a lot of the ongoing projects at google.
that's an area definitely i spend a lot of time on.
and i do think we are at the forefront of the development.
and that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
