thank you.
your line is now open.
please go ahead.
looking at the pace of progress, i think we will have ai in a form in which it benefits a lot of users in the coming years, but i still think it's early days and this is a long-term investment for us.
thanks for taking the questions.
as you look at some of the numbers, the reason i said it's more instructive to look at annual or rolling 12 months is that there can be some lumpy things on a quarterly basis, but we're continuing to invest across the businesses as we talked about.
and as i tried to stress in my opening comments, we're looking to push the frontier both within google and other bets.
your line is now open.
great.
in terms of talking to customers, first of all, as i said earlier, the cloud platform is now already used and trusted by over 4 million applications.
and our next question comes from mark mahaney from rbc capital markets.
the focus is developing technology with a real emphasis on safety and understanding what it takes to build and operate fully autonomous vehicles.
we continue to make great progress.
so starting with the us, i think the main point is that we've had meaningful growth in all geographies, reflecting the product strength and the added tailwind of the holiday season.
but youtube and programmatic continue to deliver strong growth, and that translates into the results that you saw for the us.
and so very focused on long term, building that user experience to be assisting users and that's the framework with which we think about it.
but really to the heart of your question, looking ahead for 2016, we do expect to see accelerated investment in capex and that's to support both google and other bets.
first, sundar, if you could talk a little about youtube?
youtube had very healthy revenue growth, again, driven by growth in trueview and other video ads, but the monetization story is still evolving.
i'll go back to my prior comment.
but we're doing more than that.
i have two.
one, just going back to the cpcs real quickly, if we were to sort of normalize out both trueview and currency, i'm just wondering any comments on how core search is doing and just how core mobile search is doing from a pricing standpoint?
i think part of it's -- you got in the way you asked the question -- which is we've achieved efficiencies after this heavy spend in 2014, and that's where the team was very focused as we ramped up spend.
and then you also made the comment during the prepared remarks that arpu for play, i believe you're referring to play, is up 30%.
i think operating losses roughly doubled on a year-on-year basis on a trailing basis.
is that sort of the trajectory that you're wanting us to think about going forward?
but very much with a view of having a very disciplined envelope around the way we are looking at the opportunities we have across the other bets.
and so we looked at them, again, opportunity by opportunity.
and as i've already said here on this call, mobile continues to outperform, desktop growth remains healthy, and with all the comments that both sundar and i made with respect to mobile it should be clear that mobile search revenue was up significantly this quarter.
you may all disconnect.
