and then on a quick balance sheet note, we obviously saw the strong aws results, but unearned revenue doesn't seem to be growing at the rate it was in the past.
this is dave.
there's some disclosure around additions to unearned revenue as part of the cash flow statement.
so, that's i think one of a number of factors.
if you step back on whole foods, again, i think we've had busy months since we've joined forces, offering lower prices on a range of key grocery items in the stores.
guess i'll ask 2 as well.
what would you attribute that to?
sure.
had a very strong prime day in particular internationally.
so very pleased with the customer response in the aws business as well.
and as i said, we had a great -- the largest new prime -- new sign-ups on prime day for the prime program.
our next question comes from the line of eric sheridan with ubs.
we continue to hire a lot of sales reps, and it's tied directly to our major investment areas of aws, prime video and devices.
in particular, there's a lot of talk now about potentially using whole foods stores for physical pharmacy presence and also that you've perhaps got an approvals across multiple states in that category.
as i said, there will be a lot of work together between prime now, amazonfresh, whole foods, whole foods products on the amazon site, lockers at the amazon -- excuse me, amazon lockers at the whole foods stores.
the other category which includes advertising accelerated 58% in the quarter.
advertising revenue continues to grow very quickly, and its year-over-year growth rate is actually faster than the other revenue line item that you see there.
amazon business is also expanding in india.
can you just talk about how brazil compares to maybe some of the other international markets that you're investing in?
and then the follow-up on the whole foods.
on brazil, just briefly, yes, we did recently expand and add an electronics category there in brazil.
so yes, you will see more expansion from us.
or maybe again, i know you can't comment on rumors, how you have approached to that in the past or in other market?
and then to the extent that we are thinking about aws growth in the fourth quarter, you guys are lapping the price cuts from last year and obviously have about an 800 basis point easier comp q3 to q4, taking those 2 things into consideration, how should we think about aws growth through the end of the year?
so probably nothing specific to call out on that one, but that's a lot of what you're seeing from us today.
and then secondly, given the recent management changes in video, brian, i was just wondering if you could speak to any strategic shifts in video or changes in the pace of content portfolio build in coming years?
we're not sure how it will play out, but we're going to cooperate across those different customer touch points and trying to make them better for customers.
so we're seeing a lot of benefits, just the ability to stretch the order cut off from what once was 3 p.m. in the afternoon to midnight, has huge benefits both for the customer and also for amazon.
