just wondering if you could update us on that just given the guidance for q3 and what we saw in investment in q2.
sure.
the other dynamic is that similar to last year, a large percentage of our new fulfillment centers are coming online in the second half of the year, a lot of them in q3.
it was that last year and it's continued through this year.
last year, we added 30% additional square footage to handle that additional shipping volume, and about 80% of that went in to service in the back end of last year.
or should we think about adding different modes, such as pickup points and bricks-and-mortar, as serving a distinct customer base or geared to reduce the cost bottleneck around home delivery?
so we're experimenting with a number of the formats, from physical pickup points in amazon go to online ordering and delivery to your door through prime now and amazonfresh.
all those are valuable services.
so we are adding -- having success hiring a lot of people and pointing them at some very important programs and customer-facing efforts.
could you characterize or maybe even quantify how much of the fulfillment infrastructure investment that you're making is going to incrementally gear towards handling growth in sort of the existing business and infrastructure versus expanding your capabilities in fulfillment, like adding more inbound or last mile and/or from entering new international markets where you need to invest ahead of growth versus just sort of keeping up and maintaining growth within sort of your existing footprint?
so yes, we've had numerous price increase -- or decrease, excuse me, and we continue to have that in the aws business, both absolute decreases in service costs and also rolling out new services that may be cannibalizing more expensive, other services that we provide.
so nothing really to note on q2 or q3 from that standpoint.
i think we're very happy -- we're very happy with the fba program, its impact on prime and we think prime and fba are self-reinforcing.
the -- again, as i've said earlier, the run rate's gone up from $14 billion to $16 billion in q2.
and also, we had the largest sequential and year-over-year dollar rise in revenues.
and talk to kind of -- if you really do see 1- to 2-hour shipping become a larger piece of the business over the next year, what's the biggest challenge to make sure that you manage?
on the subscription revenue, grew 53% year-over-year versus 52% in q1.
there's also, in that line item, are also other monthly fees associated with some of our other subscription services like audiobooks, ebooks, digital video and digital music.
we learn as we grow internationally as well.
and again, we like what we see, and we'll continue to expand that and we'll be working very hard on making that not only a valuable prime offering, prime benefit, but also lower-cost operation as well.
on advertising, technically, what i said is the sales force has grown higher than the rate of growth in the business itself, which was 42% regular headcount, and that sales force is primarily aws and advertising.
our next question comes from the line of eric sheridan with ubs.
i'll start with the second one.
the north america segment is a little further along in the prime -- or excuse me, yes, the prime membership growth curve.
and then there's also india.
other revenue slowed from 58% in the first quarter to 53%.
is there anything to call out around that?
we are -- again, i personally think that new devices -- the ability to see new devices is a great asset, but i don't want to shortchange our -- the rest of the bookstore and the ability to have curated selection and the creativity we've had in taking a new look at the bookstore.
