are you still committed to the high single-digit growth rate for this year?
secondly, q1 tends to be our lowest quarter in general, if you just look at our seasonality, in the year for overall revenue and output and growth in that business, in the data center business.
sure, i'll start.
and the demand for those high-end, high-performance products from 2 in 1s, gaming, high-end workstations continues to grow faster than we are even able to project.
so right now, we've forecasted a slight decline through the rest of the year.
yes.
the only thing i would add, brian, is the -- in the -- with the asps being a little bit stronger than we expected in the first quarter, as we mentioned, we expect full year revenue to be up $0.5 billion versus where we were 90 days ago.
and part of it is we had good progress, brought down spending as a percent of revenue about 1% for 2016. we're a quarter in, and we're seeing good progress in our efforts along 2017 of taking it down another -- slightly more than 1% as we look at this year.
and i would just say that the -- we kind of -- our focus is on growing the earnings performance for the company in the short, medium and long term.
that's very helpful.
on the depreciation, we kind of implied in our guidance really no change on a depreciation through course of the year.
and then maybe if i could just ask, i know you don't break it out anymore but just your view on your modem product this year and next.
bob can talk about -- jump on top of this.
and really, looking out over time, we have the next several series of modems over the next few years from an lte perspective, and then we're already working on and believe we're leading, if you looked at our output from mwc back in february as well, on the 5g side, which is both at the modem and back through the base station.
so that's a contributor to growth in the first half.
for my follow-up, i'd like to ask about dcg margins.
in the first quarter, just to be clear, the 9-point drop in margin, 7 points of that is attributed to the fact that dcg is a bigger business, and we've indicated it will be first on 7-nanometer and a fast follow on 10-nanometer.
i think in terms of going through the course of the year, the things that are going to change, as brian indicated, we got strong product offering coming out in the second half of the year.
we expect asps to improve as we go throughout the year.
i guess what i'm trying to understand is should we be thinking of capex this year as sort of the new norm with rising capital intensity, investments in the memory business, maybe optionality around foundry?
and then as we go out through the second half of this year, the first of the products comes out in silicon from our nirvana acquisition, which is another form of ai acceleration.
so in terms of the $300 million year-over-year burden on dcg operating margin that's due to the cost allocation, is that sort of a fixed number going forward?
and our next question will come from ross seymore from deutsche bank.
i don't know if it's rounding or not.
or is it directly correlated to the revenue growth that you're seeing in the memory group?
i guess another way to phrase the question is what's the bit growth?
so we need to think about how we'd really go and present this to you if you want to think about it from a bit standpoint.
when would it transfer to china?
thanks, kevin, and thank you all for joining us.
you may all disconnect.
