and that's on the serve -- cloud service provider side of the internet companies.
and so i think the nut of it all is that we're seeing data center growth in gpu computing across the board.
the esports is growing.
i think it's amazing.
and of course, the first-party titles, the aaa titles are doing great work.
it's a very complicated software problem.
and inferencing, inferencing as it turns out, is far, far less complicated than training.
the cpu is really the only processor at the moment that has the ability to basically run every single network.
and i think that's a real opportunity for us.
it's not about provisioning inferencing.
the average selling price of the nvidia geforce is about 1/3 of a game console.
people are willing to spend $200, $300, $400, $500 for a new game console.
your next question comes from the line of c.j.
it's a product that i -- that is sold both into our installed base as well as growing our installed base.
how much of our installed base has upgraded to pascal?
i guess as my follow-up, on the inventory side, that grew, i think, 3% sequentially.
come to the keynote tomorrow.
every hyperscaler in the world is using nvidia for either deep learning, for some announcements that you'll read about in data center deployment, tomorrow hopefully, and then a lot of them have now standardized on provisioning the nvidia architecture in the cloud.
can you maybe provide some additional color for the individual segments?
we feel good about the guidance that we're providing for q2.
but again, we do believe datacenter is a super great opportunity for us.
at the ces earlier this year, you guys announced geforce.
yes, atif, thanks for the question.
and we are -- i said at gtc that around this time, that we'll likely open it up for external beta.
and that's -- it's still years away from being able to find the right balance between cost and quality of service and the pervasiveness of virtualizing a gaming pc.
so we've been working on it for several years and these things take a while.
is that a business that is of interest to you?
but i expect it to be high.
and at the core, it's because in the future, every aspect of transportation will be autonomous.
the world is just growing too fast in an instant delivery, delivered to your home, delivered to you right now phenomenon.
well, let's see here.
there's a -- it's a great question and there's a couple of ways to come at it.
first of all, ai is going to infuse all of software.
we've been using now deep learning.
and the combination of those 2 things makes it look like it's the end of moore's law.
we want the best transistors.
and like i said, it's really, really important to us and i want the best.
and i guess just on that note, how do you think about segmenting the sales effort?
it's both of those.
we have a team that's working with the manufacturing industry.
that's helpful.
just wondering if you have any comments on what drove that.
high-performance computing is used by companies who are using simulation approaches to develop products or to, well, to simulate something.
it's just not right.
and then there's inferencing.
and so i published a blog.
and then just moving to the gaming gpu side.
i was just wondering if you could just talk about the competitive landscape, looking back at the last refresh and then looking forward into the back half of this year.
we've been running internal beta and closed beta for some time.
my expectation is that it's going to be some time as we scale that out.
and as you know, overnight successes don't happen overnight.
we'll have exciting news to share, next-generation ai, self-driving cars, exciting partnerships and more.
you may now disconnect.
