sure, vivek.
so we believe that ip-related revenue will be a factor as we go forward, but our primary focus is on the product-related revenue and the product-related growth.
got it.
we see ryzen continuing to ramp.
in terms of the headwinds, we have the semi-custom seasonality, and we're also predicting that there will be some leveling off of some of the cryptocurrency demand.
so overall, we do expect there will be some puts and takes in the semi-custom business as we go into 2018 and there will be some product revenue that will ramp, particularly in the second half of 2018.
our next question is coming from mark lipacis from jefferies.
yes.
yes, absolutely, mark.
and we've seen growth both on the ryzen side, particularly in the desktop side of the business, as well as on the graphics side.
we did see some benefit of channel restocking, so if you look at the -- our channel inventories today compared to july, we have healthier channel inventory levels.
as we look into q4 though, we also see growth from just the oem side of the gpu business as we start ramping vega into oems.
and we're seeing significant interest from enterprise customers ramp now as some of the oem platforms are becoming available and starting their seeding.
mobile asps are down.
but overall, behaving as we expected and in some sense, we're very pleased with how we're positioned competitively with the product.
but as far as our 2017 guidance is concerned, i have said previously 31% has potential of revenue, but i think right now where the numbers are coming out, especially with the strength of the revenue side of the equation, we think we end up at about 30% on an expense-to-revenue ratio in 2017, of which you -- as you probably recall, is at the upper end of what we are setting of a long-term target model, which is 26% to 30%.
it's a major node, so we have a lot of engineering resources on that.
we're overall pleased with how the performance on that is looking, and then we will opportunistically look at some products to go into 12-nanometer as it makes sense for the road map.
and second, i think a lot of us are aware of the forward charges you'll get for using wafers from other foundries, but i assume that, that applies also to the gaming console business that comes out of tsmc currently.
and you see the benefit across both the segments.
and from a go-forward standpoint, despite the costs being there, we look at it overall from a viewpoint of the trend of the margin.
major provider of the gross margin uplift is the premium new products that we are launching.
so is that the right way to think about that segment this december?
but it's -- there's no particular opex impact of using multiple foundries.
but i would say that our product portfolio, in general, will take advantage of 7-nanometer.
and then as a follow-up, if you can answer this, and maybe it was already answered, so forgive me.
so we did say that the ip transaction was a patent licensing-related transaction, so that's different from the technology licensing, for example, that we did with thatic.
our next question today is coming from vijay rakesh from mizuho.
so the question was sort of the strength of epyc and where do we see it -- how do -- where do we see it going in q4.
we will see more growth or we expect to see more growth into q4, especially as some of these trial runs turn into more deployment activity.
lastly, just wondering how channel inventory in graphics side gpus are.
our next question is coming from chris danely from citigroup.
but again, i would wait until the overall results come out in a few weeks.
i think that's a good question.
but overall, i think the pc market was about what is expected, and that's a good thing.
have you seen the number of design wins increase in the quarter?
we've seen customers who started with one platform now looking at multiple platforms with epyc.
okay.
i do believe that customers do want some integrated system solutions.
thank you.
we appreciate you joining our call.
that does conclude today's teleconference.
