thank you for taking my question.
i was trying to understand where we stand in the weakness you saw when you talked about three months ago.
it shows that you were getting back to a sequential growth that is better than slightly above what you have done on average in recent years.
and, you see orders coming back in routing.
and then, maybe just more broadly, what's your feeling about the macro today?
great.
this is justin on for jim suva.
i'm just wondering if you could maybe provide any updates or any milestones now that it's been about a year since you've had the partnership going?
kelly, i think last quarter you quantified the impact of the shift in the business model is over 2 percentage points in terms of the hit to growth as you increase your future visibility on the shift.
i think what i say is between 1% and 2%.
just one quick, small follow-up.
thanks, chuck.
thank you.
if you look at those 10 just to give you the numbers this time.
any new areas or skill sets you will be looking for in the management team to drive profit and growth through the rest of this year and over the next few years?
and, is the strategy focused primarily on doubling down on security, analytics, ai, automation?
can you hear me now?
not really.
chuck, my question was more on the senior management team.
steve milunovich, ubs securities.
and, again, the teams are driving hard to find more ways to accelerate new offers that way.
it has gone to 31% in the last two quarters.
kelly, comments on the deferred and the margins?
so, that's why we are so focused on it.
particularly, one thing that we noticed that the apac margins were look particularly weak.
just a little help on understanding where the pressures are on [product gross] margin?
and, we are seeing dramatic increases there.
and then, the question -- i was hoping you might be able to update us in a little greater detail regarding the trends you're seeing in the service provider vertical?
we have -- i think the teams are working incredibly well on the next generation of capabilities in the platforms and in some of the software and automation and some of the same themes that we've been talking about in the enterprise core networks.
i feel good about where they are right now.
we'll go ahead and take the next question, sam.
51%, obviously, a very big number.
but, i will also say my switching and my routing as well as data center, we've done fiscal one bundles as well as big enterprise license agreements.
wireless being meraki.
hopefully, that gives you the color you are looking for.
all right.
there is no expectation of revenue or earnings impact from this clock issue in the current quarter?
the deferred revenue from our subscription and software business is indicative, i think, of the transition that you should continue to expect from us.
we now plan to close the call.
