or we should finally see some better results in that category?
kelly?
i'll answer the easy one first.
okay.
and so we anticipated these results.
but this is also not a typical platform transition.
it appears -- is that still continuing yet?
however, our teams did a really amazing job, and we saw significant improvement in our enterprise and commercial business in the u.k. and if you look at the overall performance in emear, you can see that the strengthening in the u.k. for us actually helped achieve the result at the emear level.
if i look at your revenue guide for next quarter, so we're still slightly down year-on-year, but sequentially, the kind of revenue change you're guiding for is actually probably better than the average seasonality for q1 of the last few years.
yes, pierre, let me give you a little color on the revenue question and sort of the business conditions, and then i'll let kelly talk about the q1 guide as well as the margins.
in general, i think if you just look at our order rates that we released today, we went from negative 4% last quarter to flat in q4 -- i'm sorry, from q3, negative 4% to flat in q4.
commercial, every region around the world improved from q3 to q4.
and i'll just mention that we are starting off with a strong backlog with our backlog being up 3%.
our next question is from steven milunovich with ubs securities.
this is a revenue timing issue.
or are you also...
vijay, can you speak up a little bit?
so i think, yes, the question is what commentary you are hearing from your customers and channel partners and your sales teams on purchasing these newer products such as the catalyst 9k with software and security features using the subscriptions model.
much better.
yes.
and we continue to make traction with these customers.
and in this scarce supply environment, our supply chain team has done a great job securing supply for us, but those prices continue to be at market -- at prices as it goes forward.
we increased that a little bit this past quarter.
and we've been able to access and get access to capital to take out debt if we need to as we go forward because, again, we are continuing to ensure we have the flexibility we need, whether it's for strategic m&a or to continue with, obviously, our dividend and share repurchase.
our next question is from paul silverstein with cowen and company.
and then on the other clarification, on the switching commentary, can you give us the data center switching growth all-in beyond just the aci portfolio and what the campus switching decline was?
just kind of generally from a part of the network point of view, where is that sluggishness materializing?
a large majority of the inventory increase is driven by memory advanced purchases.
so let me ask you a question and 2 clarifications, the question being, what was the drag on growth from the shift to subscriptions this quarter?
and the clarification, kelly, you mentioned the tick-up in price erosion.
was it still below 3%?
so on the shift, first, it's not much different than we told you.
it's basically about 2%, between the 1.5% and 2%.
and price decline?
i'm just trying to see if you can help us quantify the outlook for your security business, if you see an inflection point of the business moving more towards a solution sale than point products versus what we've seen in the past.
thanks for the question, simon.
and what's happened is if you think about how our customers are building their it infrastructure or how their it assets are being deployed, they're in a massively distributed mode.
but i believe the 7,600 this quarter was a pretty significant increase over what we saw during a quarter over the last 2 quarters.
so i think that's going to be a headwind for us.
and when you look at the innovation that was introduced, particularly around the automation, around the new platform and the innovation we drove in the security capabilities, that's what you're going to see from us going forward.
and i think that our security results on the number of new customers embracing the technology, i think, is indicative of how they're buying into this new architecture.
we now plan to close the call.
if you have any further questions, please feel free to reach out to the investor relations team at cisco.
and we thank you very much for joining today's call.
