you'll also notice that the fire tv stick was -- the new version of it was launched in india with some important features there, such as the ability to search in hindi and in english, free data usage for 3 months and also data monitoring, which is important there.
sure.
you saw other things like our business -- b2b business just opened up in the u.k. we have amazon devices.
our next question comes from mark mahaney with rbc capital markets.
and then secondly, on these -- on the echo devices, the echo family, alexa devices that are coming out, could you comment at all about what kind of impact you're seeing in terms of increased wallet or per share within household?
so very, very pleased with the initial progress.
and that's one of the answers to your second question on north america operating margin.
we also have this trend going on in our fulfillment networks where strong fba growth and high growth in amazon fulfilled units is resulting in a large increase in fulfillment capacity.
we use those technologies a lot in our internal businesses, and we're also developing services for aws customers.
so there's a long list and i can keep going, but i think the general theme is we're -- there's a lot of investment in front of us that we're optimistic about and we continue to ramp those investments.
so i'd be curious to talk -- if you could talk about examples or areas where you've been able to iron out inefficiencies in the fulfillment process.
yes, we haven't updated that number, but suffice to say, the innovation pace continues to accelerate.
we see more and more of it appearing on the site, and i was interested to hear a little bit more about how you expect that business to roll out internationally.
we have -- sponsored products is off to a great start, and it's a very effective way for advertisers to reach those especially interested customers.
just curious if you'd say -- have you made a lot of progress in terms of catching up with some of the fulfillment needs that you saw necessary in the business at the beginning of last year?
and do you see advertising becoming a more meaningful part of the business over the near to midterm, i guess?
how should we think about the way that, that might be impacting pricing mix, near-term growth?
yes, on the deferred revenue balances, as we've said in the past, the primary drivers of that increase are both the activity that we're seeing with our aws customers and the purchase of reserved instances and prepaid credits for their account as well as prime member purchases.
the ability to control shipments within our network has gone up, and we think the cost is very good.
if you look historically, we've taken multiple approaches.
our next question comes from eric sheridan with ubs.
the retail subscription services, that's a pretty big jump up in the growth rate year-on-year in q1 versus q4.
and net shipping costs actually grew at the slowest rate by our count in a couple years.
sort centers, right.
but when you think about building out the capacity, it sounds like last year you had that big surge in fulfillment centers.
we're still growing that, and we're happy with the progress in prime now and the service that -- the value it creates for prime customers.
and as i said, we've expanded internationally, which is a big goal of ours as well.
i can't quantify it for you right now.
