one, we see a lot of partnership announcements intra-quarter on the e-commerce side with google express and voice-assisted shopping on google home.
but with shopping, especially as we move on to making shopping more seamless across mobile and newer computing categories like google home, i think there's tremendous interest here.
and i think you will see us make a lot more progress and have a lot more announcements.
and then the third is the return of capital, and no change or update there in terms of how we think about that.
and our next question comes from mark mahaney of rbc capital markets.
two questions, please.
you called out asia, and i -- we noticed that, too, that year-over-year growth rate was higher than -- was the highest at least since you've been disclosing it.
and we also launched region-specific products like google tez in india.
and on your tac question.
and i think the main point is we're very pleased with our strong partnerships across the mobile ecosystem.
it's a good question, heather.
so it's a big opportunity.
okay.
first, on cloud.
on the hardware business, it feels a little confusing on what your real goal is there.
but more importantly, i think we are striking a lot of important partnerships with leading technology vendors to scale and reach more customers.
so that's the overall strategy, and i think that's really beginning to pay off.
hardware is -- the intersection of hardware and software is how you drive computing forward.
and so it's a model we understand.
it's partly why we are very committed to driving success on our platforms, both through the ecosystem and our hardware efforts as well.
on the other part -- or maybe, ruth, do you want to give color?
and that's why we stress repeatedly that we're looking at what are the long-term needs and opportunities that we can be addressing.
if we're doing that well, we're delivering long-term revenue and earnings growth.
and i had one on youtube.
sundar, i'd like to just follow up on an earlier question about e-commerce and specifically a trend we see growing across the ecosystem of applying e-commerce data to targeting advertising.
wondering if changes in partner agreements, since those are one of the key drivers of the increase in tac, could we then see the rate of tac growth moderate as you anniversary those deals?
but overall, wondering what portion of those search queries are proving to be incremental to search, the search experience?
so in terms of tac, as i indicated, we've got a couple of things going on.
and as we add new modalities, it really drives a better experience for them.
and so we see this as a big opportunity ahead, and we are investing for it.
we've talked about that on prior calls given all the ongoing advertiser adoption of programmatic buying, and admob continues to see strength here.
so sundar, can you talk about how google's positioning in the emerging markets over the longer term can be different versus what we are used to seeing here in the states?
and ruth, should we assume that the relative size of the dollar contribution to the other revenue growth happened in the order you gave out in the prepared remarks?
so any perspective you can share in terms of the relative growth you may be seeing recently?
and that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
