and then anything that might have limited sales in the quarter.
yes, sure, absolutely, matt.
i think the important thing is as we go into the second quarter, we not only have the channel sales, but we also have the major oems that will be launching their systems in the second quarter.
but overall, i would say it went quite well.
lisa, you talked in your prepared remarks about as the new product roll out across the different parts of the company through the year that margins should expand.
yes.
perhaps a question for lisa and one for devinder.
and for devinder, as your customers take higher asp processors in the game console business, i seem to remember when you originally launched, i thought that the -- maybe the initial yields or maybe the initial margins were not as good but the margins improved over time.
and so in terms of the new product ramp, the yields are as expected and per our margin structure.
yes, so we are on track to launch the rest of the ryzen portfolio in pcs.
there was also some additional r&d in that segment as we're ramping up both product expenses as well as some sales and marketing and go-to-market expenses in the quarter.
i think, 2 parts to it.
and the difference in the capex guidance, $80 million to $100 million, and $40 million is primarily the max costs.
so what does that mean for, i guess, how you guys are tackling gross margin now if they would have been directly in the cogs before, and now they're being capitalized over time?
our next question today is coming from ambrish srivastava from bmo capital markets.
and then i have a follow-up.
and so we would expect it to take a couple quarters for us to ramp the naples product over time.
so for certain workloads, i think naples is going to do very, very well, certainly, in the cloud as well as in certain hpc workloads and big data workloads that can use all of that memory and i/o bandwidth.
so i think it's just that it will take us a couple quarters to transition the overall portfolio over to ryzen.
how do i think about that dynamic?
just that this $50 million, $60 million, $70 million, if this is right, is this a run rate number for ryzen?
as i think i mentioned on one of the previous questions, we don't expect to be at peak run rate in the second quarter.
i know you probably may not quantify it, but just how do you feel about the overall pc gaming market?
as it relates to asps, we are excited with the launch of vega that will see a significant improvement in our asps, just given our current presence in the high-end segment of the gpu market.
and then just talk about the impact to the gross margin with the higher 7-nanometer spend now hitting gross margin.
so from our standpoint, these are very strong products.
then just in terms of the impact to the gross margin as the mask sets roll through?
i think we've had a lot of discussion on the gross margin improvement year-over-year and sequentially.
and how are you thinking about the ryzen products stacking up against that?
so i think we feel good about where we are positioned today and we're going to ensure that we continue to roll out products to strengthen that positioning over time.
we look forward to speaking with you again.
thank you.
