i wanted to see if we could understand more of the guidance, kelly and chuck.
so when i look at the guidance we just gave, our orders were a little weaker in q3, which does mean that i'm starting with the lower backlog than anticipated.
and then when i'm assuming, when i look at the order strength, we're assuming what we saw in q3 continues on in q4.
where we had -- we have been facing headwinds all quarter long with sp and emerging.
and then finally, we are seeing an impact because you're seeing it go to the balance sheet of this transition that we are just accelerating through to the tune of 1.5 to 2 points.
and now we have more than doubled that to $4.4 billion, and the growth there is accelerating.
if you could give us a little bit more color on the guidance and your gross margin assumption into the guidance, how much of that is mix-related and how much of that is pricing?
thanks, ittai.
it's not increasing.
but overall, the pricing hasn't changed dramatically besides the normal erosion that we see in churned business lines.
in the americas, it was primarily the u.s. federal -- i mean, there's so much uncertainty around budgets.
mexico, there has been a lot of uncertainty in mexico, and that was actually down 49% for us year-over-year.
and then we continue to see pressure in the middle east relative to oil prices.
i think if you look at customer segments, just to give you some color, enterprise, the challenge was largely driven by europe.
yes.
so that's what we see happening there.
the next question is coming from vijay bhagavath of deutsche bank.
next question on queue is coming from jess lubert of wells fargo.
for chuck maybe.
on the revenue side, i take your points on the macro economy and the weakness in emerging markets.
and many of those solutions are targeting these next-generation networks that our customers are going to need to build out to support this new infrastructure.
let me just give you a couple of comments, and then kelly can give us any specifics.
and the mexico business that i discussed is heavily influenced by service providers.
is that something that we should see or we should expect to see changing over time?
but clearly, the transition to the software and subscription business obviously impacts how to think about guidance going forward.
kelly?
next question is coming from the line of steve milunovich of ubs securities.
where do you think we'll see that?
maybe help us understand how much of that is smartnet and maintenance-type services and how much is, let's call it, next-gen recurring revenue.
so yes, if i break out the 31%, so the way to think about it, rod, is basically, 90% of my services revenue is recurring, okay?
we've actually continued to do well in some of the next-generation areas that we're working with many of the u.s. service providers.
we see lots of opportunities when you start talking about automation and analytics and things like network assurance, capabilities or in service provider, self-healing networks.
i'll pull up about -- i'll try to pull up here as i'm answering the second question, any difference between europe and the americas.
the...
on the impact of the recurring business.
it is definitely pushing closer to the 2% range at this point.
and i'm trying to see what could cause reacceleration.
but we do believe that across the portfolio, with future offers, we have the opportunity to do that, and you'll see that as we deliver on some of the new capabilities.
we also, obviously, wanted to be very clear about the areas that we needed to invest in, and you've seen significant investments in security and collaboration over the years.
and at the same time, we are leveraging our capability to do inorganic as well as organic innovation to make that happen.
and in the midst of all this change, we remain very committed to our execution model and ensuring that we're focused on profitability as well as capital returns to our shareholders.
we now plan to close the call.
and we thank you very much for joining today's call.
