so can you give us a bit of a sense of how big is memory prices in the 1.5 points gross margin declines that you've seen year-on-year?
yes.
so we expect that to continue.
but otherwise, we kind of see everything else in the normal range of things.
our next question comes from the line of mark moskowitz with barclays capital.
thanks for the question.
and as part of that, chuck, related to the previous question, can you give us any quantification of your progress with the web 2.0 hyperscale customer segment, given the importance of that segment?
but just to give you some color.
i mean, we continue to see the double-digit growth that we've been talking about of our aci portfolio, continue in the strong double digits.
i think we know the use cases where it's very competitive, and i think that it continues to -- they continue to operate at the high end of what i expected from them.
and i think that after we acquired viptela, we have now, at our sales meeting, we provided tremendous clarity to our sales organization and our partner community at the partner summit about what our strategy is.
but right now, it's in that 2% range, 1.5% to 2% range.
what does it include?
so i think we're very pleased with where it is right now.
so 100% of the new switches are sold with a subscription, and that's going well.
so i think that the thing that is resonating with the customer is if you look at the environments that they're all beginning to operate in, they're operating in an environment where they have multiple saas providers, multiple cloud providers.
and kelly, any comments on the...
yes.
yes, i'll take that one.
i wanted to see if you could give us a little bit more insight into what you would attribute the outlook to in terms of this is the first quarter with year-over-year growth we've seen in quite some time.
so i'm wondering, if we attribute it to an easy comparison or lapping the buildup of deferred revenue or some specific product cycles, if you could help us assess the key elements bringing you back to year-over-year growth.
i would say also, the launch that we had on the intuitive network and the excitement around the reinvention of the core is having an impact.
i apologize, simon.
so the teams are working hard to continue to drive innovation there, but also looking at what other elements can we fit into this architecture over time.
it's jim suva from citi.
okay.
you can't build a next-generation digital business without a comprehensive security strategy across endpoints, network and the cloud.
thanks, chuck.
we now plan to close the call.
