great, thank you.
i have a question for sundar.
so i think we are well-positioned.
thank you.
now that you have this breadth of device ecosystem out there into the marketplace, i wanted to know if we can get a little more color about what your learnings about the adoption of the device ecosystem, how you are thinking about the go-to0market strategy over the medium to long term, and how we might see sort of an evolution across operating systems?
i wonder if we can get a little more granularity about what went into that one-time expense, so we can just factor that into the financials?
and so, i think the end-to-end strategy is working well for us.
and then, the other item i noted was, with respect to our tax rate.
mark mahaney, rbc.
two questions, please.
and then, sundar, if could you talk about voice search, particularly in the home and in the car, and the importance of getting devices out in the marketplace?
and then just to follow up on mark's question on voice search.
so we think about it from a long-term perspective, and so i see more opportunity than challenge, when i think about voice search.
look, i mean, i think, i would think about it as how we are investing a lot in developing this premium experience in the way of youtube red, youtube music, and we do offer it across google play music as well.
thanks for taking my questions.
so we get it at a pretty granular level, and we try to hit all of the areas.
and so, i think you'll see progress in all these areas over the next few years.
okay.
look, overall, i would say, there's been a -- been very pleased with how the team has been driving innovation in ad formats, and the ad experiences.
i think, we're [realizing] that it's very early day.
we give users control over that experience, but i do think as part of these changes, advertisers can get more detailed insights from their youtube campaigns across devices.
we work very closely with tv networks on their individual shows.
if you look at fourth quarter this year and last year, there seems to be an acceleration in q4, and then it comes back.
and i think it especially gets important in the vision we have for computing, where users are going to use it across many different contexts.
and so, that is how we think about it.
and i mentioned earlier, i'm incredibly excited at the line-up we for this year from our partners.
so on google play for me, what makes it work well is, just with the vision of computing we have been talking about how it works across context.
we invest in all that, and i think we'll move it all forward.
hi, just maybe another question on youtube.
and so, we're working towards a long-term experience that's right for users, and which i think will make sense for advertisers reaching users too.
is there still room to help ad clicks with coverage increases?
and so, i think we see -- we have a lot more headroom left, and ruth talk about --?
thank you, and i'm showing no further questions at this time.
