so just wondering if you can frame in order of possible the investment areas that are driving the negative incremental margins, and then just generally how should we think about the margin profile in 2017?
first, let me talk about revenue just to get that out there as well.
so yes, what you are seeing, john, is the continuation of the step-up investment that we saw in the second half of last year.
i talked about in prior calls about the fulfillment center step up.
and finally i'd point out india which continues to be a rather large investment for us.
and then separately as it relates to just the video service.
thank you.
this is darin.
we rolled out prime last summer, if you'll remember, and we recently launched prime video there.
we will continue to build our business there, and continue to do a great job for both customers and sellers.
as you may know, we've launched the prime program that's focused around the availability of international goods in china, and we are pleased with what we are seeing there.
to the extent that there is 150 basis point impact from leap year on a year-over-year basis, is there a way to quantify the impact that that shift to third party is having on the growth rate for the first quarter or for what you have reported in the fourth?
we feel we've got a very broad base of customers from startups, to small medium businesses, to large enterprises, to the public sector, and we are continuing to see strong growth across all those sectors.
the fulfillment center expenses and a lot of our shipping costs are tied to the increase in that fba percentage, and that growth of amazon fulfilled units.
we factored it in, and obviously into the numbers i gave through guidance the timing of it was again closer to december 1. so there will be a incremental differential in q1 on those price cuts, but this is something that we again have quite frequently and i don't think it's a large factor in q1.
and if you are looking on a non-fx adjusted basis, the foreign exchange exposure which i mentioned was $730 million or 250 basis points expected in this guidance.
hello, mark.
on that unit growth, we're very happy with the 24% unit growth that we saw in q4, like you mentioned.
thanks, two questions please.
first, any comment on customer growth qualitatively how that trended throughout the year, accelerated, consistent, decelerated?
i don't think i'm going to answer your exact question there on quantifying the retail sales through echo devices.
it's still very early days on that, so that's not material.
so it's a great part of the flywheel in that echo and alexa make the devices better, and it builds the engagement, not only with echo and alexa but also with amazon.
what we do like is the engagement with prime.
so we are very pleased with our customer engagement this year.
can you help us at all on what you are seeing in some of these markets, like the uk where you have more of the last mile build out done on your own?
you did give some comments about india, but any other color or how to think about it.
eric sheridan, ubs.
we have other types of advertising that spread out throughout the p&l, whether that's a shared marketing investment from our vendors which goes into contra cogs and lowers the cost of sales or its related to other seller advertising which is generally within the egm and media categories.
thanks for taking my questions.
i can't add too much or won't add too much on the last two questions, but i will say on -- you're talking about the levels of engagement now that we are seeing versus what would be the long-term model over time.
because we think it's done really well.
we think it's won a lot of awards, and we have worked with some great talented people.
it's our ability to scale that and to amortize it over a much larger customer base, which will help us in the future.
