so it's not just sales reps. we've been thoughtful about how we have built out the entire go-to-market organization.
one is the office of the cto, which helps customers solve difficult technical problems.
so i think it's coming along quite well.
i was just wondering, sundar, if you could share with us, what's the feedback then since next from your cloud customers?
and could you share with us how, qualitatively, some things we can gauge just kind of whether this is starting to see -- whether this business is starting to see an inflection on growth or not?
and i guess, just what i'm interested in is also the types of conversations you're having with customers now versus maybe 6 years ago -- or i'm sorry, 6 months ago.
and so the feedback has been very positive.
so we find that when we drive the assistant experience well, it works overall in helping people engage with google at a broader level.
and our next question comes from mark mahaney of rbc.
and do you see any material impact to advertisers' budget interest with youtube?
and so we take that responsibility very seriously.
so today, when you use google, a lot of the information we are able to do is because of google maps.
we understand that.
so we have a lot of touch points.
but you'll see us invest a lot more here in the years ahead.
any high-level commentary on consumer search, query trends in retail, either an area of strength or otherwise?
and so as we start doing that, and i think as we get a better understanding of their inventory and the data, how we can translate all of that into our core experiences is a bit of the work ahead.
or if that was kind of a one-off isolated agreement?
on search, i continue to get surprised by the kind of things users reach out to us for and how that keeps evolving and changing.
in terms of monetization, i think about it.
and so what we're looking at over a multiyear period is the pace of innovation that's appropriate, given the sizable opportunity.
but the key point, and i've said on so many different calls, is that we remain focused on long-term value creation.
i have 2 for sundar.
the first is, now that you've launched youtube tv, i wonder, can you tell us about the advertising opportunity there?
so i think -- we think we have a significant opportunity to improve that experience, and especially for advertisers to be able to think across all these surfaces.
these are large-scale system problems, and especially with machine learning and ai over time, i think we can really put in the right systems in place.
ruth, sites tac as a percentage of revenue grew sequentially and year-over-year.
and when we look year-over-year, the primary driver of the increase is, very much to your question, the strength in mobile search, and we do expect sites tac to increase as a percentage of revenues.
and i think the main point is we're very pleased to have a very strong business in a rapidly growing area, and that's benefiting our profit dollars even as the tac percentage increases.
they find that creators who are featured in originals experience a significant boost in youtube subscribers and watch time on their main channels as well, often from new fans.
the thing which gives me excitement is all these changes start happening with a set of early adopters and most mainstream.
thank you.
and that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
