well, micron team actually has already been, as we said in our remarks, working on driving our high-value solutions mix to greater levels in its portfolio.
and if you look at some of the market share numbers, you will see that the market share over last couple of quarters has increased meaningfully.
things that have been going well, continue to build on them, but expand, diversify our capabilities, our product portfolio and deepen our customer engagements.
so it seems like your gross margin expansion should be greater than the implied 100 basis points you're guiding to.
and also as we look at the pricing environment, we continue to view supply and demand in a favorable way.
and our next question comes from the line of chris danely from citi.
okay.
and that trend, due to all the features that are being implemented, even in the entry-level smartphones and certainly on the high-end smartphones, are tending to drive higher average content and demand growth for dram as well as for nand.
those are a little less than we've experienced in the prior few quarters, mark.
or is there maybe other factors like mix that we need to keep in mind for the august quarter on the nand business on cost?
but the answer would get you to fairly significant cost reductions this year, commensurate with the type of bit growth that we've spoken of.
so there hasn't been a significant change during this period of time.
and we always keep an eye on overall demand and supply balance and our own demand and supply balance as well, so basically prudent focus on supply growth management.
i just want to make sure it's not down in absolute terms.
i think we're thinking that, that segment would be somewhere in the range of plus low to mid-single digits in aggregate for us in fiscal '17.
in terms of driving our growth ahead, of course, we have several tools available to us: our technology and product capabilities, our engagement with customers and our ability on the manufacturing side in terms of implementing the new technologies into production.
our next question comes from the line of blayne curtis with barclays.
so consistent with one of the earlier answers, we are in the middle of our planning process for fiscal '18.
so consistent with our prepared remarks, those are the 2 things we're focused on.
is that more -- did you see any contribution yet?
i would expect it to be increasing over time.
and so i don't know that, relative to a long-term target, that we would be prepared to be making any changes at this point.
sanjay, my first question is, when you think about sort of the consensus view on long-term nand demand, it's fairly bullish, which makes sense given the ssd story.
i'm just kind of curious, though, when you think about these new applications like data analytics, ai, maybe level 4, level 5 autonomous driving, is there a bottoms-up argument to have a more bullish long-term view on dram demand?
and if it's greater than 15% to 20%, is that something that's going to require more than just technology transitions to support?
and then, ernie, as my follow-up, i know you don't want give us quarter-by-quarter mix targets, but i'm kind of curious, as you sort of exit the back half of this fiscal year where you're outgrowing industry bits in both nand and dram, and you move into the first half of next year where you'll be undergrowing, can you help us just kind of frame, is there enough sort of mix up opportunity during the first half of '18 where even though you might be losing some bit share, you might not be losing sort of profit share in the industry?
in terms of the bit growth, 20-nanometer provided something like, let's say, 40%, slightly greater than that in terms of bit growth compared to the prior node and gave us a cost reduction of more than 20%.
and when we go to 32-layer compared to the planar nand that we had -- that we have here at micron, the last generation of planar nand, 32-layer gave us a bit growth in volume die of about 100% or so and gave us a cost reduction of greater than -- in the range of maybe sub-30%.
that's very helpful.
we think that channel inventories are well within the range that we would consider to be normal.
you said you're going to spend towards the higher end of the range, so roughly $300 million plus, give or take a million.
