and you'll see us over the next coming quarters, when we bring new products to market in the -- particularly in the enterprise networking space, but across the portfolio, we will apply that same strategy.
so that's what we're focused on.
kelly, any...?
yes, sure.
so on your question on the deferred revenue plus unbilled deferred, so that was up 28%.
the big driver we have for that, that is just purely product, okay?
so in the results we just went through, of the $6.1 billion of deferred from software and subscriptions, that is related to how we've been accounting for it under the old asc 605. so when we go in...
just to clarify, though, would you write down some -- you'll write some of the deferred down in q1 as a result of the change or not much or...?
so i would say that -- i would not say that this is a material result of the implementation of 5g, to be honest.
my first question has a lot to do with europe and the strength you saw in the region in this last quarter.
or maybe you can give us just an idea on the sales cycle and the customer base that you're addressing.
and so we're seeing a number of those.
i think that they are competing very well because we have some very tough competition there.
so we're pleased with what they're doing.
so i was -- just want to check if there's something that's limiting kind of the flow-through of the solid momentum on the top line to the operating margin?
yes, thanks for the question.
our pricing is very robust.
but that's part of what we see, both in q4 and the guide.
a clarification question.
but chuck and kelly, my takeaway from your comments is that there's an awful lot of things going right.
the best i can do is acknowledge that it's a bit of both.
and so obviously, they have a lot of their business going through deferred revenue, and they continue to grow in high double digits.
so i'd say it's continuing to grow very quickly.
i wanted to see if maybe we could talk a little bit longer-term trending, big picture around the concept of multi-cloud, which you talked about at cisco live!
now we're moving into a world where there is still some percentage, depending on the customer, of their traffic that is obviously terminating in a private data center.
so what's happened is the traffic flows, and the way data is moving across their networks and across their infrastructure, is much more complex than it was 5 to 7 years ago, where it was all very predictable, which leads us to, when you think about, ultimately, our customers are going to just need to build a world where you look at the user, you look at the application, you look at their policy and you look at the destination, and then you have technology in the network that actually provides policy routing, quality security in that world.
and you asked what does that do to our partnerships with the web-scale providers.
well, they understand this dynamic that is going on.
james suva from citigroup global markets.
and so i would tell you that we're -- we don't know yet.
second question, just a follow-up on 606. what's the impact on operating margin if you've provided this or you provide this information?
and you said that we believe viptela was going according to plan.
i think the way i would characterize it is we've begun to see customers actually move forward with deployments, but it's early.
and i'll let kelly answer sort of how you think about the overall routing or the 606 question.
we've made no changes to our contracts or any changes to our cash conversion cycle.
george notter, you may go ahead, from jefferies llc.
i guess, kelly, i was curious about the revenue headwinds that you're seeing from the subscription transition.
the good thing about this accounting standard is it does normalize some of the -- some of the natural headwinds we've had on revenue and margins because of it is now going to kind of come back and benefit us.
i want to -- i think that was the last question, marilyn?
we now plan to close the call.
