maybe you could talk a little bit about some of the pressures in cost of goods sold that were either seasonal or maybe a new normal in terms of a higher level going forward.
google assistant in some ways brings together all the technology we've been building for years, and it's an extension and it's supported by google search as well.
so that's something big we are focused on.
and so we are leveraging those best practices and trying to build this in a way in which the entire ecosystem can ship products with the google assistant and generate values.
is there any reason to think that the strategies might be different that you're going to follow as you look ahead than what we've seen over the past, call it, since the advent of the iphone?
i mean, given the ongoing momentum in our mobile search business, this does continue to be relevant as you look forward, given mobile carries higher tac.
but not much more to add there.
we do first-party devices.
and so i don't, overall, see a big shift.
and our next question comes from douglas anmuth of jpmorgan.
and riders will be able to use our waymo app to hail one of our fully driving -- self-driving cars without a driver at the wheel.
it's investing in the many opportunities that we have.
could you just talk about some of the drivers of the strength of desktop.
you are right.
in the fourth quarter, i think you said that the 4q is significantly elevated.
maybe one area, which for example highlights how well it's doing is if you think about youtube on tv, people actually watching youtube on the big screen, our growth has been significant there.
good question.
there's clearly momentum we feel in terms of how europe is doing, and we are very committed to the region.
in terms of, again, with eu -- with the european commission, we have long had constructive conversations.
one for sundar, one for ruth.
so first question was, as google preferred kicks up a little heat on types of qualities that makes the cut for your videos, do you feel that you have to take a more active stance in looking at what is in google preferred -- sorry, youtube preferred?
and how are you going to go about that?
thanks, michael.
and then maybe, two, just as a follow-up.
so being able to get those teams working together, i think, will really drive the pace forward.
and then, ruth, in the prepared remarks, there was a lot of comments on investment in your medium-term business growth drivers, offices, data centers and other areas.
so a lot of the innovation that we are doing has gone on to not just an individual query in how we respond, but how we think about what our user is trying to accomplish over a series of sessions.
and i think so, there's a lot of innovation that's happening in that direction.
and again, we continue to look across the various products, their needs and try and prioritize, but we can remain committed to long-term growth.
you're launching the ride hailing service in phoenix.
so these are assets that really work well.
and that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
