why not extend the intent based across the broader portfolio?
yes.
what i would tell you is that we have 3,100 customers who have adopted this platform.
and what i would tell you is that the enterprises are -- have been evaluating it because it represents a different architectural approach with automation and analytics and security built into the network.
so kelly, comments on those?
i'm just wondering how and over what time frame you may be able to address that.
i can tell you, from a demand perspective, we're very excited about how quickly this demand has been.
we did not have any significant supply chain issues of any sort or any shortages on this product line as well.
i wanted to start off by asking about the opex line.
sure.
and if we get a lot of orders in the last week or 2 of a quarter when, again, as this thing is just ramping every week, we fulfill to our lead times.
so in our guidance, we will have obviously the revenue and the margin and the opex that comes with broadsoft.
but otherwise, we're going to be disciplined around that and invest when we can.
we still had a price headwind, but it's at the lowest that it's been in many quarters.
i don't know, chuck, do you want to add some comments there?
and the great news for us is that we have several different product platforms that meet whatever need the customer's looking for because we have so many customers that will be looking at this transition at different paces.
we've had routing capabilities in our switching platforms.
most of the time, we hear positive feedback from large partners, but sometimes there's a cash flow dynamic.
and just wondering how that nets out.
and i think that for our customers, what we wanted to do was we wanted the base subscription plus the product to be somewhere at or slightly below what they would have paid for a previous switch with a perpetual license on it.
so it's not us taking $1 they've been spending in the past and telling them, "now you've got to spend $1.20 a different way."
in fact, i think our partners are thrilled that we've reignited innovation in our core portfolio and given them an opportunity to work these refreshes with our customers.
kelly, can you tell us how much of the product revenue was recurring and number of cisco one customers?
so we continue to make progress.
but 13% of our total product revenue is now recurring, of which all of our revenue 33% is.
so we're pleased with that.
commercial strength, thank you.
so largely that was the big driver, but i think it was pretty consistent across the board in the portfolio.
but i think our teams are executing really well.
i'm paying a $6 billion a year on...
included the $13 billion over the next 2 years.
we're going to continue to be looking for the acquisitions that we can drive value and drive growth with.
we're going to continue to support the dividend and drive that up with earnings, like you saw us do today.
so yes, basically, campus has been up, it's up in orders.
can you hear me?
i'm sorry about that.
a clarification and a question first, i guess.
and the clarification is, kelly, would you mind helping us understand how much broadsoft is adding to the upcoming quarter and maybe to the most recent one, too, depending on the specific close date?
we haven't talked about that today.
your next question comes from mark moskowitz with barclays.
a question on the revenue growth profile.
and marilyn, i'll just turn it back to you to talk about our next call.
great.
thank you for participating in today's conference call.
you may disconnect at this time.
