let me start and amy can add.
so when we think about the intelligent cloud and the intelligent edge and then bring that to the azure business, you can see it at each layer.
there's murmurings about not having enough kind of exclusive games on the console.
so let me take both of those questions.
but our real strategy going forward is not only to do great work on the console, but to complement that with the work we're doing on the pc.
we are seeing tremendous growth of minecraft expansion on mobile platform in china.
we would welcome it on our devices because we believe in a world where our own assistant should be available everywhere and so should other assistants be available on our devices versus thinking that the end game here is about speaking -- doing one-turn dialogues on one speaker in one home.
that's just not our vision.
how should we think of where we are in that process?
it's been in the market a while.
our next question comes from the line of raimo lenschow with barclays.
having said that, the way it fills up is by the value-add that we can do.
so that's why the mix of these higher-level services, especially around data and ai, is definitely driving a lot more consumption of our higher-level services.
and so i'm wondering, looking beyond this quarter, if you could expand on how commercial bookings growth ex renewals is trending.
this quarter is a good example of that happening.
i think there's -- and you'll see that dynamic.
so if the expiry base is a little bigger, you'd expect obviously a number bigger than that on the bookings side and when the expiry raises, there's growth.
but it's come from sustainable investment and our sales technical resources and in the engineering to deliver a differentiated value at the customer.
now that being said, i am pleased, obviously, to be able to access the cash more easily and not have to go through the debt market to be able to make these choices, whether it's investment in ourselves and the returns you've seen in this quarter in revenue growth, whether it's the acquisitions like linkedin that are performing better than we expected.
and i think we've done a good job, and i'm proud of what we've done and i'm proud and excited for what we can continue to do.
you're right.
we still have some room to improve that office 365 commercial gross margin from the new workloads we've added, which have even more of those pure saas-like workloads.
so there is a market expansion in terms of users and the sophistication of the workloads that they can use or the higher-level services.
it's an interesting question to say what is being stored in office: in meetings going forward, at home office or people calling in, things like mixed reality being used in meetings.
so it's not just about old workloads and service providers and essentially hybrid computing as we understand it.
thank you, all.
this concludes today's teleconference.
