any sense to when we can think of timing for your server products on 10-nanometer also.
i'll take that one.
the systems on shelves that we expect in holiday '19 will be client systems with data center products to follow shortly after.
the first one is, could you give us some color on what are the most challenging aspects of the process that you need to address to improve yields?
and that, to some degree, is factoring into our timing of 10-nanometer and launching 10-nanometer at a point in time where we believe the yields are at a level that make it prime for volume production.
so 14-nanometer, i think through the rest of this year and through 2019, continues we believe to drive product leadership across all our portfolios in clients and server.
and i guess, as you talk about the question, maybe navin can chime in.
but we're looking at real strong growth for the full year.
and not only volume, but the trajectory of xeon scalable and the adoption of xeon scalable has accelerated a little bit beyond what we expect to driving real good asps.
the only thing i'd add to that, john, is that the demand is broad-based across all the segments that bob talked about.
yes.
so we see good solid op margin growth first half to second half.
the dynamics are the gross margin, we expect to come down a bit and be more than offset by good volume leverage on a relatively stable spending base.
one, accelerating growth of modem as we go through the second half of the year, accelerating growth of nsg or memory as we go through the second half of the year.
we'll be up another couple of points first half to second half, but the gross margin dynamics will weigh on us in the fourth quarter and spending will more than offset it.
we're not giving a direct time line right now.
i actually want to go back to the question about gross margins in q4.
i presume by segment out, you mean quantify, and my answer's probably unfulfilling if that's the case.
but i think you hit on the 3 things.
but if i look at our broad portfolio of products, our asps look very good.
so in general, we're just seeing an almost insatiable appetite for the best products, the highest-performing products that we have.
and where is that coming from?
our next question comes from the line of chris danely from citigroup.
so really good expansion in margin performance while continuing to invest.
in general, we're going to see a much shorter ramp period between our products going forward in client and server.
the way i look at our road map, what we're really focused on is delivering product leadership generation over generation, and that's at the system level.
and is 10-nanometer less of a drag in the future?
so as we see our customer relations going forward, you'll probably see a lot more codeveloped products using intel process technology in order for their delivery and their interworking with the product portfolio that navin talked about.
so custom products through a custom foundry relationship remain a strategically important part of our customer engagement portfolio.
thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your participation in today's conference.
