and it completes our new computer graphics platform, which is going to reinvent computer graphics altogether.
the first is for the markets of visualization today, they require photorealistic images.
the second area where you're going to see the benefits of ray tracing, we haven't announced.
and this platform has those 4 computation methods that i described for generating images.
thus, this week at siggraph, we announced quadro, which is the first -- the quadro rtx 8000, 6000 and 5000 -- the world's first accelerated ray-tracing gpus.
and stay tuned, we've got a lot more stories to tell you about rtx.
so i think the inventory balance is getting ready for that.
sure, thanks for that -- for the question.
let's see, pascal was really successful.
we've partnered with microsoft to create dxr.
and as a result, on the day that turing comes out, we're going to have a richness of applications that gamers will be able to enjoy.
i actually think that on a year-over-year performance, we're doing terrific.
in your prepared remarks, you talked about ai and high-performance computing driving new verticals and some of these verticals are fastest growing.
and we'll see probably a mix of both selling our tesla v100 platforms but also a good contribution from our dgx.
i think the one simple way to think about that is this.
and so that's another supercomputer that you have to build for simulating all your software costs, those billions and billions of virtually created, challenging miles.
so for short term, as you think about your gaming guide, are you embedding any drawdown of channel inventory there?
what turing adds over pascal is the same tensor core that is inside volta.
the tensor core inference capability of turing is going to be off the charts.
and i guess, i'm trying to understand the impact that crypto would have on the guidance for october, given that it seems like it was very small in the july quarter.
i had one for jensen and one for colette.
inference is going to be a very large market for us.
and the reason for that is because artificial intelligence and deep learning software and neural net models are going to -- prediction models, are going to be infused into software everywhere.
yes.
we probably possibly see that again in our q3 guidance, the year-over-year growth across each and every one of those platforms.
but definitely, our gaming and our data center are expected to grow sequentially.
you're obviously enabling a lot of capabilities.
but that will take some time for that all to partake.
so we'll see how that goes.
i'm curious if that's related to the data center business or what's really driving that as kind of a follow-up question.
computing demand is increasing at historical levels of 10x every 5 years.
your next question is from harlan sur with jpmorgan.
hgx-1 was, i guess, kind of the prototype of hgx-2.
hgx-2 is doing incredibly well for all the reasons that you mentioned.
your next question is from tim arcuri with ubs.
and even though new cards -- at the current prices, it doesn't make much sense for new cards to be sold into the mining market.
and that's exactly the reason why we built xavier.
our core platforms exceeded expectations even as crypto largely disappeared.
we launched turing this week.
and nvidia rtx with turing is the greatest advance since cuda nearly a decade ago.
