and then maybe a reason for the ad business to accelerate within the other line.
elsewhere, we saw probably better-than-expected efficiencies in operations, our infrastructure costs and generally all of our fixed costs.
it's growing at the same rapid clip year-over-year.
even while in international, we're continuing to invest in a lot of areas.
sure.
so there was a bit of growth, particularly in lower asp items from that, that we saw a last year.
so we're comping that.
last year, there was a lot of first half investment.
on the fulfillment center capacity, i don't have a number for you today.
i'll probably clarify that at the end of next quarter as we head into the holiday.
so we think pillpack has got all those traits, and we look forward to the deal closing and working with them.
the operating margin itself will fluctuate quarter-to-quarter.
a very strong performance this quarter, obviously.
hey, this is dave.
we talked to coming out of prime day, had some good success and happy customers enjoying some of the devices there.
so i think that's a lot of -- the focus now is really having good and exciting roadmap of recent revises and more to come ahead and getting those into customers' hands.
how should we think about what that capex and capital lease spend signals about your expectations for growth?
so what i would say is, i'm not sure about the breakthrough element of it.
on revenue accounting, can you just sort of walk us through any of the accounting changes that any of the revenue lines had in the current quarter because of the multiple accounting moving pieces?
pain points and improvements, i would say our priorities include improving the usability of our tools for advertisers, helping make smarter recommendations for customers.
you'd see that in that line item, which is about $2.2 billion here in the second quarter.
our next question comes from eric sheridan with ubs.
two questions, if i can.
during the prime day, we had some unique deals with -- for prime customers at whole foods.
we'll see how that develops.
we have the delivery services, so amazonfresh and prime now, which serve a certain need.
so lots of innovation, invention on that front as well.
we're investing in india, obviously, and have seen good traction there.
we just passed our fifth year anniversary.
so we launched prime australia.
we launched echo and alexa in france.
so i would say that we're continuing to frontload prime benefits in the newer geographies.
just quickly on music, as you mentioned, tens of millions of paid customers are enjoying amazon music.
on the new supreme court decision, you guys have been collecting state taxes in all 45 states where it's applicable for 1p.
and for 3p, i think it was in 2 states.
so as dave mentioned, we're now up over 45,000 skills.
so that's the biggest emphasis, is getting the expansion of alexa to places where it can be useful.
we feel like we're getting great traction there.
