so extremely strong seasonal growth for enterprise, a little bit more than we expected, frankly.
and then, brian, on my second question revolves around capex.
so my perspective is, if you take a look at it, right, memory kind of -- i mean, logic on our capex just scaled with our increase in revenue and kind of our overall growth rate.
maybe if you could talk about -- it seems like that would cost a lot, if i just look at what your competitors are spending.
sure.
over time, we'll increase spending in nand in r&d, but those are being offset by efficiencies that we're driving into the rest of our product r&d.
yes, joe, i'd just add some numbers to brian's words.
the separation of development work is, again, out in time.
so we continue to work together on 3d xpoint.
and we've talked about ours are very data center-centric and really tied to performance and aligning to the customer market that we're really looking at.
our next question comes from ambrish srivastava with bmo capital markets.
yes, so we came into the year and we indicated that we expected margins for the full year to be in the kind of 40% to 45% range.
secondly, asps were up 8%.
that performance for us was higher asps.
but good volume leverage, strong asps as customers paid for performance and unit cost improving.
okay, that's helpful.
so we'll see some continued improvement in 14-nanometer products during the course of the year.
and that ramp is going to weigh on the margins as we begin to develop production going into the second half of the year where we're way up the curve on where our yields and costs are.
so those are kind of the 3 things as we see it, and if i were to characterize, roughly plus 1, roughly minus 2, roughly minus 1, rounding those.
and so we factor that in each year appropriately, i think, against the competition.
our next question comes from stacy rasgon from bernstein.
secondly, we do expect lower working capital as we go through 2018. third, we have higher strategic customer supply agreements.
and then, on the 10-nanometer start-up, can you share with us when you're expecting to begin depreciating those costs?
from a forecast standpoint, we actually made our forecast, and we've checked it, as we go through this -- the first few weeks here of the year, against our prior forecasts to make sure that the forecast incorporated any changes or any signs we're seeing up or down.
and that really took us from a high single-digit to low double-digit or 11% growth for the year.
that's how we planned the year coming into 2017, and we did kind of the same thing for 2018. so i don't anticipate dramatically different dcg growth in how we laid out 2017 as we enter 2018, because we really haven't assumed a change in trajectory of enterprise cio spending in the course of the year.
so i'll start, and bob can add some number detail and all.
so ramp's on schedule and aligned with prior ramps, and the asp was more about buying up on the higher-performance parts than necessarily a volume statement.
and then i also want to go back on just -- sorry.
thank you all for joining us today.
you may now disconnect.
