we've seen additional costs creep in, in the name of customer experience in prior years.
and this was, in hindsight, probably one of the cleaner q4s recently.
our next question comes from the line of douglas anmuth with jpmorgan.
that will continue.
we're in a $20 billion run rate in top line revenues for aws, up from 18% -- excuse me, $18 billion last quarter.
so that would -- that expense is going to continue and likely increase.
it's a very positive surprise for us, both on a -- adding a little bit more to that, we had record device sales, we had very high levels of customer engagement, including increased levels of voice shopping, growth in functionality, growth in our partner -- partners we work with.
so really strong usage of -- excuse me, alexa with our devices.
fulfillment, again, is -- fulfillment capacity, especially to fuel the strong top line growth and growth in amazon fulfilled units, which, again, is growing much quicker than our unit growth rate, we expect that and hope that to continue as well into 2018. video content, we spoke about on the last call, we do like the results we're seeing with engagement on customers, their buying habits, their engagement with the video content, their use of it on devices.
but i'll be release -- yes, i'll incorporate that into the guidance each quarter as we move through the year.
that will fluctuate quarter to quarter.
maybe if you could shed a little light on why that is so and what are some of the key drivers there.
it's -- given the 30%-plus growth in square footage last year that we've built, that's one major headwind from q4 to q1.
yes.
this is dave.
we reduced prices more than 60 times with aws since launching.
i'll take the first part of that question just around the new revenue recognition standard.
in terms of in the aggregate and the impact to our expectations for the revenue guidance for the first quarter, it's not material.
so we're working with advertisers of all types and sizes to help them reach our customer base and the goal of driving brand awareness, discovery and better purchase decisions by the customer.
i think i have 2 questions.
how's it going versus your expectations?
so just maybe a little bit more color on your international business.
we're continuing to be very excited about the opportunities we have to innovate with the whole foods and amazon teams together in our physical stores.
also, i will mention that we did see a small operating income/loss for the quarter from whole foods.
we feel that it's had a lot of growth in the past year.
in fact, more prime members joined india's prime program in the first year than we've seen in any other country in the history of the world, our world.
we continue -- i would say on the category side, the biggest effort will continue to be on groceries and consumables with the whole foods acquisition.
how big can it become?
thanks for the question.
and we look for ways to be able to find private-label items that have a high caliber of quality, but also can bring that selection and that convenience for customers and really supplement what vendors and sellers are already providing to customers in many cases.
and then -- and i'm sorry i have a little bit of an echo, i don't know why, but -- and we're hearing from marketers just how important amazon is to their media strategy.
so i don't know if you could just maybe talk about that a little bit more broadly in terms of the approach and your philosophy to that business.
so we see a lot of commonality there where we as -- depending on position in the company.
