tim, there has been some real deceleration in some of these emerging markets, partly driven by some concerns around some of the rules the administration is contemplating and partly driven by things that are more specific to china, for instance, like some of the regulations around gaming.
and i have a follow-up.
sure.
in relation to china specifically, i would not put china in that category.
and we also provide the user a one-payment model for purchasing apps and subscriptions and in-app purchases, et cetera, so that they are not in a position that they have to share their private information across many companies.
if i could just ask you really quick on apple's role in health care.
they're all ramping right now.
and sort of how are you going to manage this process as we go through?
when you look at our financial performance in recent years, take the last 3 years, for example, the number of units sold during any quarter has not been necessarily representative of the underlying strength of our business.
but of course, we understand that this is something of interest.
and so the -- our guidance isn't changing.
with the staggered iphone launch, were you able to discern any impact on the xs and xs max from buyers potentially waiting for the xr?
the xs and xs max got off to a really great start, and we've only been selling for a few weeks.
so the opportunity for us to monetize our services business continues to grow over time.
the number of developers that either have done something or even more the case that are working on things that i've seen are growing tremendously.
and so i think we are in the early days, and it'll keep getting better and better.
next, we'll go to katy huberty with morgan stanley.
we have significant content from the u.s. market.
i think there's a reason why things have developed in that way, and i think it's great for all countries and citizens of countries that are involved in that.
on the other hand, as i mentioned before, currencies have weakened against the u.s. dollar.
i am a big believer in india.
and jim, let me take the question on units.
but as i said earlier, a unit of sale is less relevant today than it was in the past.
to give you an example, the unit sales of iphone at the top end of the line have been very strong during the september quarter.
and so therefore, we will -- as i said, we'll provide the qualitative commentary when it is important and relevant, but at the end of the day, we make our decisions to -- from a financial standpoint, to try and optimize our revenue and our gross margin dollars.
