so we -- our philosophy there, again, is we're continuing to focus on finding valuable ways to make our advertising opportunities better for customers, showing them new products that they may not have seen otherwise, and also for emerging and established brands, helping them to reach customers.
prime program continues to drive great strength in our top line, as you've seen over the last few years, actually.
and our 2-day shipping, it's now available on over 100 million items, up from 20 million as recently as 2014. and we continue to add digital benefits, like prime video.
as you look at the other supplemental line items, just a few items of note.
again, beginning in the first quarter, we now recognize annual prime membership revenue straight line over the 12-month period.
so in q1 of this year's subscription services revenue would have been lower, but for this new standard.
so the first one, on prime, let me ask you this.
sure.
now i talk about aws revenue, again, we're -- we are accelerating.
so what we're seeing is just continued strong usage, both by existing customers and signing new customers for -- see an increased pace of enterprise migrations as customers are having success with aws and increasingly trying new services.
some of the data that we've seen suggests that this year, your -- the rate of growth in the build out of fulfillment centers and other parts of the retail logistics network as well as data centers, but more on the former, that rate of growth is slowing this year relative to last year and even the year before.
i know that you guys go through periods of kind of heavy investment then you grow into that capacity.
so there's a couple of things at play there that, hopefully, keep that number closer to the revenue growth rate.
our next question comes from the line of doug anmuth with jpmorgan.
so we saw great efficiencies at the higher level of revenue, and we're able to handle it.
we'll have some cost in q2 ahead of what's anticipated to be a prime day in early q3.
and then, finally, as part of advertising, you've got, also, a heck of a lot inventory around all of that video, that prime video that you have that you don't allow -- that you don't directly charge for.
how do you think about that as an advertising revenue opportunity?
so let's start with the $239 million, that is essentially where attributable to warrants that we have in companies that we've partnered with.
it's now a multibillion-dollar program and growing very quickly.
so we're looking for a good balance here, as we said.
so i think, brian, i had a question on your international shopping rollout.
so just wondering if you are seeing incremental demand, and where you might be seeing demand coming in from countries where you might not have a direct presence?
it's well over 50% in some countries, particularly the u.k. it helps with, again, prime now and amazonfresh and a lot of initiatives that we'll see, which again, we've mentioned that prime now is tied in with whole foods, now in 10 cities.
on the 3p piece, we do collect on behalf of our sellers in 2 states, washington state as of the first of this year and then, pennsylvania turned on here on april 1. so in terms of your question of sort of impact from the first-party pieces coming online, many of those states came on over a period of time to get to that 45 total, going back over many years.
i mean, we've been adding value for a long time, obviously, shipping costs are going up.
so when we add benefits, prime benefits, we're probably adding them at an earlier stage of life in the prime program internationally than we did in the u.s. so they have different dynamics.
we'll continue to build device business globally including alexa, which we think has great stickiness with -- in the home and i think creates a lot of value in the home and also allows you to access, over time, amazon products better.
