our first question comes from the line of chris danely from citigroup.
chris, it's bob.
the cloud side was impressively strong in the quarter and it sounds like you think that's going to continue.
but the enterprise and government side, i know you said that was china specific, but that was exceedingly weak.
q2 was even softer.
growth was much stronger than we expected.
and we benefited from that tremendously last year.
yes.
i guess how do we think about the trajectory from where we're exiting this year to the gross margin profile in 2021?
i think that could also be a factor.
i had a question for george.
it doesn't seem like a lot of it is dropping through to the op margin because you're investing more in 7- and 10-nanometer.
we're going to see more accretion from this deal coming in the following year when we would expect a significant increase in the reduction in sort of the run rate opex for the piece that's going out at the end of the year.
we haven't really changed our view of the full year.
so now we're looking to a strong second half for dcg.
and that qualification is the single biggest reason for the step function in inventory from q1 to q2.
maybe if i can go back to the gross margin from -- at the q4 level, i'm just kind of curious, given that capex has been running significantly ahead of depreciation, i'm kind of curious if there's anything going on on the depreciation schedule, which is impacting the calendar fourth quarter gross margins.
how should we conceptually think about that?
in 2020, how i think about 2020, i think we -- as i said earlier, we think we'll see a benefit from moving up the yield curve on 10-nanometer.
one is over time, we have more and more of our 14-nanometer equipment that's fully depreciated.
what i think the biggest difference is just how strong you see demand has been and the pull-ins that came into the second quarter leading to a much stronger second quarter where we are passing obviously some of that through with the exception of the pull-ins to the full year.
so that's -- how we think about it is big opportunity to grow, large market, protect our position while expanding into new vectors.
so not a whole lot has really changed on that other than we know it's going to be more competitive and we try to take that into account as we've thought about not only our second half outlook but our 3-year outlook.
did you say that the net result was actually small in the second quarter?
and as bob said, we're -- it doesn't mean that we're not concerned or cautious about what could happen if there's a change in policy between now and the end of the year.
thanks, david.
thanks, everybody, for joining us.
and we look forward to giving you another update 90 days from now about continued progress momentum on our multiyear journey.
you may now disconnect.
