okay.
but over the long term, you would see us be in this low-30s percent level.
and second half of the calendar year, with respect to demand improvement, we'll be -- demand will improve in the second half of the calendar year compared to the first half of the calendar year.
sanjay, i guess, i just wanted a little bit more detail behind the decision to actually shutter some dram capacity in the current quarter.
there seems to be a little bit of a reversion from that.
i'm wondering if you can help us understand what the cost implication of that is.
the second node of replacement gate will get higher layers later compared to the first node.
i guess, a 2-part question.
in dram, the reduction in supply growth is a result of this idling capacity, idling wafer starts is bigger impact.
our next question comes from the line of harlan sur of jpmorgan.
so back to a question on inventory.
and that is already -- we are guiding to bit growth in dram for our f q3, and that should continue in f q4 and for the rest of the year as well.
and the trends of increasing average capacities in smartphones, both for dram and nand, continues to be intact.
all of that bodes well for the long-term demand trends as well.
so why would you reduce starts now if you're so optimistic about demand coming back in the back of the year?
and we believe that this improving demand environment, second half versus first half that i referred to earlier, we will be able to capture the benefit of that with our supply cutbacks that we have mentioned and also help bring our -- over time continue to drive improvement in our inventory position as well.
so it seems like some of these actions have to ultimately impact your ability to cost-down vis-à-vis that level.
but one of the advantages of carrying the inventory we're carrying, 64-layer and 96-layer inventory in the next year is that it has a very good cost structure, and so we should have a good cost structure in 2020 on nand as well.
it won't be counted as part of the cost.
and as i said, it's implied in the guidance of the margins we gave for the fiscal third quarter.
so as we said -- i mean, we have high levels of inventory currently, both in nand and dram, and it gives us an opportunity to bring our production to be in line with demand.
and again, applications are also advancing toward features that require more and more storage.
we have just brought our first nvme client drive into the market, and later this year, we will have nvme for enterprise and cloud applications as well.
and over the course of next few months, by mid this year, that inventory will be returning to normalized levels to a large extent.
and i guess, i just wanted some confirmation around that.
that combined with -- are starting to see some benefit.
you might want to put it on mute.
we'll start to see these reductions in the dram inventory levels.
