historically, you have seen deceleration in the year-on-year growth rate in q4 versus q3, but many of your businesses look like they reaccelerated in q3 over q2.
it's a bit about the law of large numbers and the differential between growth in the holiday season, that very tight few weeks of the holiday season versus the rest of the year, but -- so we factored that in.
so that's a little bit more on our guidance, but again, we're looking -- really looking forward to q4.
i think we're well positioned to make it the best holiday ever for our customers.
let me start with the second part of that.
so we're -- back in q2, i said that we were estimating an $800 million expense in -- tied to one-day in q2, and we actually were just above that in q2.
yes, sure.
i would put a lot of effort into that.
as it scales and you get to higher levels of efficiency and utilization, does that become margin accretive or profitability accretive relative to using third parties almost exclusively in the way that you have in the past?
so i'm just wondering if you can weigh in on the -- on what's coming in and what's coming out.
and we're -- we also see a point out that in -- increasingly, what we're doing is renegotiating or negotiating incremental price decreases for customers who then commit to us long term.
can you talk about the key drivers of the acceleration in what looks like advertising revenue within "other?
so "other revenue," [kj2]which is principally advertising, grew 45% this quarter, up from 37% last quarter.
it's still early in the space, but we've done a few things with imdb tv, live sports, things like adding more inventory through fire tv apps and as i said, imdb tv, adding more ott video supply through amazon publisher services or aps integrations and streamlining access for third-party apps and really just making it easier for advertisers to manage their campaigns and provide better results.
so as i said, early days, but i think with the engagements of the device community, the fact that we're really excited with the progress and improvements of these devices, i think, yes, we gain a lot of opportunity there.
there's been a meaningful reacceleration in paid unit growth in the past 2 quarters with the expansion of the one-day guarantees from prime customers and just wondering if consumers are responding more in certain categories that you would highlight over others.
and actually, the amazon fulfilled unit growth is growing at a higher clip.
we're seeing broad sales across all categories.
our next question comes from mark mahaney with rbc capital markets.
i think the enterprise, we're making great progress there.
so just wondering if you view this as another potential opportunity down the road as you get excess capacity on the logistics side.
hey, it's dave.
thanks for the question.
but our focus is really on ensuring that we've got capacity from available resources, whether it's our own or our great -- our carrier partners to be able to serve the small- and medium-sized businesses in the 3p realm but also the first-party items that we're receiving orders from customers, making sure we're able to deliver those things quickly and reliably.
that's what's anticipated in our guidance that we've given.
