lisa, i had a question on your full year 2019 outlook.
or is the amendment in the wsa playing a role there as well?
sure.
so relative to the full year guidance of up high single digits, the primary growth drivers are ryzen and epyc, are the 2 largest growth drivers.
and then we would expect that semi-custom will be down.
next question, please?
to your point about starting a little bit with lower guidance in q1, i think that's true.
when we look at q1, particularly on a year-on-year basis, there are a lot of moving pieces.
and then, for the full year, are you including any ip revenue in the revenue outlook, and are we -- how should we think about the rest of the thatic licensing gains applied to sort of timing for when those might get recognized?
license gain essentially does not impact gross margin.
as we look through 2018, we were pretty pleased with our progress on epyc, and coming off of the fourth quarter, actually, it was a fairly strong fourth quarter for us and the fact that we doubled the number of units for our server business.
but we look at it as really getting consistent share gain.
oh, pricing, yes.
our next question is coming from mark lipacis from jefferies.
yes, so i think the -- with rome, our biggest opportunity/risk is adoption rate.
so the inventory growth is primarily driven by our new products and in preparation for our 7-nanometer next-generation product launches later this year, as you just mentioned.
and we'll see how the year progresses and then manage it from there.
and if so, can you give us an idea of the magnitude, like at least what is down, i guess, most versus least, sequentially, ryzen versus gpu versus epyc?
and semi-custom, given the fact that it's in the seventh year of the cycle, we expect it to be down from 2018 to 2019. but we do expect to go ahead and ramp our server business, and that will definitely benefit the eesc profitability in 2019.
do you think it's profitable for the full year?
too early to tell.
late last year, at a few different events, you talked about the server business being second-half-weighted.
we would certainly expect sequential growth in data center, although stronger in the second half.
and is there a point in time where we actually -- you foresee us kind of getting granularity on how big the data center gpu business is trending?
so i think the mid-teens percentage revenue for us in q4 was -- was a good milestone.
and it was a contributor to our gross margin as we exited 2018. i think, as we go into 2019, again, we will continue to give you visibility into where the data center growth is.
so as you think about the full year growth, is this something that's more like 50% half-on-half or 75% half-on-half?
that's really helpful.
i know you guided the full year to greater than 41% with q1 at 41%, but i'm kind of curious, if you look at a q4 run rate that's north of $1 billion higher than the q1 run rate, how should we think about gross margin and operating margin exiting the year?
and then secondly, in terms of the next epyc 2, is there any reason why it would underperform an intel 10-nanometer in a testing environment?
let me take the second question, and then maybe, devinder, you can take the first question.
but good growth on the data center piece of it, in particular, but with the 7-nanometer rome product launching in the back half -- i mean, ramping in the back half of 2019. and that's the way you kind of look at it.
so i think there is a good amount of overlap between the customer development cycle and our development cycle.
now as you said, production silicon is very key, and ensuring that the final specifications are locked in is work that we still have to do here in the first half of this year.
we feel good about the platforms, the customer engagements, the current progress of development and so that is very much our plan from an execution standpoint.
i was just kind of curious, as you think about the mix of data center, do you think -- how do you think about the trajectory of that business?
and as it relates to the overall data center gpu asps affecting overall asps, i think that's true because the gaming asps are -- i'm sorry, the gaming business was lower than expected given the channel inventory situation.
and then in terms of the workloads, the gpu data center side, we do very well in cloud gaming, we do very well with our virtualization solutions, and we have some early traction in hpc.
and i guess, just in terms of the business segmentation, i think you alluded to this earlier, but it seems like the conversation typically is around microprocessor, graphics and semi-custom as sort of 3 different opportunities.
we'll have to see how the sell-through really plays out.
thank you.
that does conclude today's teleconference.
