i'd start by saying implied in our guide for the first half is roughly 60%, so it implies a little increase off of q1.
so through all the ups and downs, there's going to be quite a bit of consistency.
once again, joe moore, your line is open.
yes.
and it's even exacerbated in china where, if you'll remember, through the third quarter last year, our demand for cloud players in china was close to triple digits.
so how do you see units versus pricing declining within the envelope of your down mid-single digits for the business overall?
so the big change from january is really more a unit story.
our next question comes from the line of c.j.
and c.j., i just might add, we talk about spending being down $1 billion year-over-year, i would say the expectations for slowing 5g spend or reducing 5g smartphone spend prior to getting through the decision process of -- that we're going through right now, is maybe 20% to 30% of that.
thanks, john.
the not planned in the quarter was just the asp declined much greater than we had anticipated for nsg.
and as i said, q2, we expect it to be better than q1 because we'll begin to capitalize those costs because of the progress we're making on 10-nanometer.
as it relates to nand, we think we have process technology advantage.
so we have decided that we are going to invest in discrete gpus.
increased workloads, we're going to leverage the integrated technology that we've enhanced and invested in discrete gpus because we think it's an architecture that's increasingly important.
so we have a good product that really pulls together those 6 pillars that i talked about earlier.
we said we expect it to ramp as fast as any launch that we've done in the past.
5g network connectivity is very strong and projected to continue to accelerate on a go-forward basis.
so timing, we expect it to be out a little bit, modest improvement in the second half but not dramatic.
and we -- like we saw in cloud and enterprise and government, comms growth we think was also impacted by strong comms growth last year that's probably being digested a little bit in the first couple of quarters of this year.
bob, i just wanted to -- i was wondering if you could shed more light on the dcg op margin.
and more importantly, how should we expect this to trend as the year progresses?
so as a result, they're just now beginning to bear some of the brunt of the cost of sales that all went through the p&l in the first quarter until those products qualify.
so the -- part of the answer is we expect to improve yields as we go forward.
and i don't want to get out ahead on 2020. we're more focused on '19 right now, but it's natural for the transition to a new node in early stages to have a bit of a downward pressure on gross margin.
operator, please go ahead and wrap up the call.
ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference.
