i guess first question on your memory outlook, if i were to exclude expected euv shipments, it looks like memory half -- over half for you guys is roughly up 30%, give or take, in the second half.
okay.
i would expect, though, that customers will first allocate a relatively small portion of their output to euv because it's a new technology, it's a new process.
but when that is proven, that can accelerate.
and going up, i would say, significantly above the 2,000 wafers per day, which ultimately, should be possible, will drive the adoption of the number of dram layers.
so yes.
how many quarters before they will come and place the orders for asml tools?
like i said in my introductory comments, what we're seeing is there's a bit difference to what we're seeing in previous cycles.
now that will lead to a situation whereby in the course of the year -- and many customers have actually said this, that they expect throughout this year, could be middle of the year or at the end of the year, but throughout this year, a better situation for them and a return to better business levels for them.
you just -- from an earlier question, you responded regarding the memory, and memory adoption of euv into 2020 depends on the 3400c.
i think what is important to recognize, sandeep, is that for the second half, it will still be a mix, right?
just wondering if you could help us on the logic side, just like you did on the memory.
so that's the vast majority of what's in there.
and i have a follow-up.
that has to do with the fact that not all modules are fully ready when we start shipping the first c with the improved lens and there are other features to that c system that come later.
but the upgrades you're probably referring to, from the b to the c, and this is where we don't think there will be a lot of upgrades for the simple reason that the b is a lower productivity tool with a lower price.
i mean, you just referenced the economic challenges for upgrading, but then again, i can't ignore the fact that there is a large installed base.
so i don't expect it there.
so i really have 2. the first one is kind of on a gross margin side.
so when do we see that step function in terms of the gross margins?
is that driven by the type of euv shipments you're going to have?
so there's a big mismatch at this stage between the cost and the revenue.
so just to understand the dynamic, i thought that services recovery would've come with euv services revenue in q3 and q4.
so there's a number of drivers there.
amit harchandani from citi.
it comes from the logic transition, 7 plus, 6 nanometer, 5 nanometer for 3 customers, the potential for dram that we talked about in a moderate market scenario.
and we will have those orders by the end of the year to fulfill 2020 like we did last year.
so with that planned lead time reduction, our customers will take that into account in placing the orders that are going to be choppy.
understand that last year you've started accelerating your r&d for the high-na generation tools.
and also secondly, after 2020, in theory, if you have done all the r&d and all the preparation for high-na launch, your free cash flow should increasing significantly.
we've also said that we believe that in the course of 2020, we will see that we're gradually navigating that back to the longer-term 14% number that we've indicated.
and anything else that we have available, we'll return in -- by way of the share buyback programs as you've seen we execute on -- in quite a disciplined way.
and i think you will see a more heterogeneous supply of those nodes for different application and different customers.
barclays.
so is it -- and should we expect something different this year?
capex this year will be fairly high.
i think that is a reasonable number to go by.
our next question is from mr. david mulholland.
yes, that could very well be.
but we do enter discussion with our customers.
but i think that's -- to answer in the general sense, we haven't seen changes in that sense.
on the dividend versus share buyback, as we said, we are looking also on a go-forward basis, we are looking on growing dividends.
i think i don't know exactly what is behind that.
you could also have a strategy, say, basically, we would have shorter cycles.
operator, if you could formally conclude the call, i'd appreciate it.
thank you for participating.
