and our next question comes from doug anmuth of jpmorgan.
i know you talked about both capex moderating and also headcount moderating 3 months ago.
but overall, we continue to invest meaningfully in our technical infrastructure given our outlook for compute requirements to support long-term growth.
what are any of the big changes he's focused on that maybe are different than what you were doing before?
and so that reflects the commitment we have.
we noticed that larger than expected slowdown in the properties tac in the quarter, that includes cost of mobile search, while the other cost of revenues, which includes youtube content costs, seem to maintain that expected growth rate despite what you said about more moderate turns in hardware.
and then as it relates to waymo, i guess a couple of things.
so we're actually looking at it in a number of different ways, but the primary focus continues to be on developing the ride-hailing business.
and so we are having conversations across the board, and i think people are definitely engaging in a very committed way, and they're investing in it.
i have 2. the first one, let's go back to the product changes.
maybe i'll start with the youtube comments.
i think we had a set of launch, which we have rolled out, but i think there are more launches coming, which will constantly improve what you see in youtube and continues to be the most important area of focus for them.
we've seen some reports on more potential changes in chrome or within the advertising platform.
thanks.
that's an important part of how we get at businesses, both while they focus on their product areas, their business, they need to work together.
and as part of that through this year, we are continuing to do a lot of work just with the overall goal of making sure privacy works for everyone and it's actually simple to use.
advertising continues to be an important way by which they create value and they see value.
i wonder if we should assume now that there's greater seasonality in core search just given the increasing mix of shopping and product ad formats.
and whether we should expect the overall pace of advancement from ai to accelerate in terms of products and services?
but we do deal a lot with one-off events as well and -- but we always work our way through it.
maybe one for ruth and one for sundar.
but how's mobile search doing?
so i do think there is a lot more to come, and we are focused on it.
we're well positioned, growth throughout the region.
just a follow-up on the last question on emea and u.s. was there any go-to-market changes in terms of the sales force or how you set quota or anything that may have been effectively a q1 seasonality issue that may see some snapback in q2?
i think if i could just maybe expand on the investing pace, as we're looking at the pace of investing and supporting growth around the globe, what we're really looking at is what's needed to support long-term revenue and earnings growth.
the operating margin did benefit in -- as i noted in my opening comments that -- from the fact that q1 marketing expenses growth moderated, but that was a timing issue.
and that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
