on the second question, on the subscription service, we'd said on the last call, you probably remember, related to the adoption of the accounting standards update and revenue recognition policies that was impacting our results in a number of areas in 2018, we'd said we'd anticipated about $300 million lower sort of headwind to subscription services revenue due to the accounting change.
but in general, we feel good about the growth in the quarter.
the retail, a lot of strength in the retail part of the businesses.
we had a great re:invent conference in the quarter.
we don't think the changes help in those dimensions for both the customers in india and also the sellers.
yes.
one of the things we're trying to do is continually evolve our tools and the products to help that customer set, agencies, advertisers, make sure they've got a variety of ways to meet their goals.
i just wanted to follow up on india.
that was a great offer for them in the holidays.
when i try to back out the impact of factors like whole foods, the advertising accounting change and other factors, what i see is stable and pretty healthy revenue growth in the retail segment but a slowdown in q4 from what seems to have been, in more recent quarters, meaningful gross margin expansion in the retail segment.
can you discuss what may have driven that and how to think about retail gross margins going forward?
let me start with that last part because i think if we step back and put 2018 in perspective, there's some clear trends regarding our cost structure, starting with fulfillment costs.
last year, we had 14% growth, and so there was a lot of leverage and a lot of -- in a way, there was a lot of prehiring in 2017 that we digested in 2018, while we still -- in some areas, especially things like our core retail business and also g&a functions, but then we continue to invest again in the technology tied to aws sales team to an aws device area.
can you just talk to any of the puts and takes we should know about from a gross margin perspective in the fourth quarter?
part of that involves changing fee structures, sometimes adding new fees or subtracting old ones.
two, if i can.
first, just on the advertising side.
thanks for the question.
our next question comes from the line of eric sheridan with ubs.
you're moving beyond just branded opportunities or sponsored product search on your own properties, thinking about experimenting with over-the-top video or connected tv opportunities that might look in front of you going forward?
we continue to see that engagement growing.
i really like the success that we've seen on those and a bit of learning from that, looking forward to pursuing more opportunities to engage and serve with customers of those types of video offers, but also take some opportunities to monetize with the advertising.
in other revenue, as i think you're aware, there are a number of components, but the largest by a good margin is the advertising revenue.
and we are comping a period of rapid growth in the prior year.
but i'd just reiterate, we're continuing to see quite strong adoption across amazon's vendors, sellers, authors, all types of advertisers that are utilizing that.
so not really much else to report at this time on that.
our capital lease expenditure in q4 was a bit higher than the prior 3 quarters.
what we do is create great value for the customer on one end and then work to minimize our cost of infrastructure, and we're getting more and more creative around getting efficiency up and getting our cost of acquisition down.
