chuck, maybe i'll -- you can kind of walk us through a little bit, kind of how the quarter evolved as far as the demand pattern.
any more color you could give us there, either from a product or regional standpoint?
thanks, ittai.
and it was fairly broad-based.
we had shown the ability to offset that with strength in these -- in commercial and enterprise and public sector.
samik chatterjee from jpmorgan.
so those are the things we've seen.
yes.
now i will say that's great.
and i think we've done a lot of great things on our pricing.
i will say, we are starting to see -- we didn't feel the impact of it this quarter, but we are starting to see pricing pressure in the server market that we expect to accelerate next quarter, but that's, of course, included in the guide.
kelly, the real question, can operating margin go up with revenue being slightly down?
so that will become less of a year-over-year favorability for us.
and then we'll see what happens to pricing there.
and you're seeing still, regardless of the macro, the improvement we're making on the software metrics.
and there's been lack of clarity for so long that i think it finally just came into play.
it continued this quarter.
rod hall from goldman sachs.
and then i'm assuming through this quarter, it's been getting worse.
do you see the weakness all over the place?
so if i take a 5-quarter view, 6-quarter view on your results, not just this quarter or the guidance, i see constant deterioration in the growth rate.
i will tell you that we saw strength -- continued strength in the campus refresh in the portfolio that we brought forward there, which, obviously, if you think about what we've been doing over the last couple of years, and i made a comment in my opening remarks about this, is we have now transitioned our entire enterprise networking portfolio to a mandatory subscription model.
so we're going to continue to do all the things that you described.
is it white box?
and i also believe that our customers, they will pause for a while, but technology is so absolutely core to their fundamental strategies that it just seems to me that the time that they're going to be able to pause is going to be shorter than what you would have seen in the past.
but we'll see how it turns out.
i'm just trying to understand what more is left to kind of build out the product portfolio around this kind of subscription motion for the company?
i'd say what we laid out is, we said, by the end of '20, we should have 30% of our revenue be software, and software and services be 50%.
but we're still very early in this transition and it's going very well.
that being said, i have great confidence in where we are with the portfolio.
and notwithstanding the short-term challenges, we feel really good about the future.
