and then kelly, if you could comment on backlog as well.
so let me start by saying, first of all, the strategy and the work that we've done on our portfolio and the engagement with our customers is absolutely going in the right direction.
if you look at our overall business, our orders outside of service provider grew mid-single digits.
the enterprise business was really -- we saw weakness in china, which was -- contributed to it.
and rod, on your backlog question.
i thought china was now down or have been down for a while still well less than 3% of revenue.
i assume they're going up on both the gross and the operating line given dram and given the shift to -- ongoing shift to software while in a benign pricing environment.
yes.
you obviously give us year-over-year order growth number every quarter, but i wonder if you could give us a sense of what the sequentials look like versus historical seasonality.
i would say, to chuck's earlier point, in terms of how we feel about the portfolio and the margins and the update, we feel good about that.
as it relates to data center, i think that next year, you'll probably begin to see some upgrades transitions when the pure 400-gig optics are available.
so we think being able to enable our customers to deliver policy from the data center all the way across the campus to the branch into the cloud is a very unique differentiator for us, and we think we'll begin to see customers adopting and deploying that sometime in the next year as well.
i'll pick it up.
this quarter -- you're guiding for 1% growth.
and if it's not a major deceleration in the growth environment, what could it be?
so you mentioned china.
and the biggest driver of the guide where it is, is the massive decline we've seen in service provider over the last 2 quarters.
i know you were selling some routers to service providers.
but where are you selling in china?
so it has a short-term impact.
so again, we talked about the big impact.
or are you kind of looking at this saying we're kind of near a bottom for service provider trends because it's been chugging along pretty low and they're starting to sweat their assets potentially?
they're not -- i mean that is the primary focus and then getting their 5g consumer networks built out.
so it's a bit unclear when that will take place.
i'd say we are not modeling and don't anticipate any significant improvement in this business in the very near term.
so i'm wondering if you can help parse a little bit what's maybe going on there.
and my second question is deferred revenue actually looks quite good.
we feel good about it.
i mean again, we continue to add to deferred revenue, which again is why i think -- look at that rpo as a key metric, which has both the deferred revenue as well as unbilled deferred.
and now here we are, and we've got every product in our portfolio in the enterprise network now that has mandatory subscription.
thanks, tim.
so basically, we just felt a slight difference in july, i mean relative to the close rates and just -- it just wasn't as strong a finish as we would normally expect, particularly in q4.
we're watching it.
samik chatterjee from jpmorgan.
but it's helping maintain kind of the growth that we do see as well as margins.
sorry.
and the results in that business would suggest that our customers are viewing it favorably because it continues to perform really well for a decent-sized business.
so i just want to thank everybody for joining us today.
