it sounds like you called out youtube as strong in the quarter on the revenue side, but is depressed on the expense side.
and we're seeing great traction there.
on youtube, i still think we are in early days of making sure youtube is a better platform for direct response.
and trueview for action is still early.
we see great traction, but i think there's a lot more to do.
they're coming to learn about things.
and in terms of waymo, as you know well, we are intently focused on safety first and ensuring a great user experience, and that's why we're expanding methodically.
and our next question comes from mark mahaney of rbc capital markets.
two questions.
anything unusual on there?
we're very excited about the opportunities we see.
and so we're investing to realize that.
and i just wanted to clarify, were you referencing an experience that's rolling out currently or just generally that, that is a best practice in general for google?
on shopping, i think we launched shopping actions around, if i remember, march of last year.
and so we are looking to bring the best of both to our users, and you'll see us reach more users in 2019.
and our next question comes from justin post of bank of america merrill lynch.
so just wondering if you can give us any thoughts on how the core advertising business is doing in there.
just wondering if there's any new strategies or new things you'll be doing this year with the cloud related to the management change?
thanks.
we've talked a lot in this call already about the importance of machine learning, and it is a key component of incremental investment, particularly in capex for our technical infrastructure to support the existing businesses, but also the newer ones, and that's kind of flowing through here.
we've talked on prior calls that we're very mindful of the fact that capex turns into depreciation, which is why i'd single this out.
and beyond machine learning, we're further investing to continue to enhance the experience for users and advertisers, and that's across mobile desktop and youtube.
and then, on the opex side, investing in engineers, in particular for google and as well as on the sales and marketing side, the increased headcount to support not just ads, but in particular, cloud.
i answered it around anthony and heather's question.
we are definitely seeing traction with large multiyear contracts, multi-million dollar contracts there.
so you'll see us focus there.
we'll continue to invest in and expand our sales and distribution channels to meet customer demand.
and then, ruth, coming back to the headcount and capex growth moderating comments.
i've already laid out the focus areas and our commitment to continue to invest to support long-term revenue and earnings growth.
but the point which you asked in your question, the year-on-year growth rate will moderate meaningfully.
and it sounds like, from your perspective, you don't really look at the margin structure as having any floor, you're just looking at this, as you said, there's tremendous long-term opportunity that you need to make these investments now.
and that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
