we had a growth year-over-year in our run rate from $24 billion to $33 billion, so 37% growth.
in q2, we had a meaningful step-up in the one-day shipments, primarily in north america.
we have seen lower asp generally in q2, higher unit growth versus revenue growth in north america, and we -- could be that we are mixing into some lower asp items as we launch one-day, but we haven't drawn that total conclusion yet.
yes, sure.
so i would say that, on a percentage growth basis, again, on a dollar basis, it's growing very strongly.
no, we don't have category specifics to really share with you today on the move to one-day.
i did say that generally in q2, the unit volume was greater than revenue volume.
i've noticed that personally myself, they're just -- with one-day shipments, it's here before you know it.
we continue to invest very heavily in our systems, both for retail vendors and also for third-party merchants, invest billions of dollars a year on behalf of them making amazon a better place for customers to buy and increasing not only vendor sales but also third-party merchant sales.
so a lot of this, of course, is just around the great power of alexa and being able to offer even greater convenience and touch points where customers can interact with that, and we're seeing a lot of great momentum with usage and how customers are interacting with alexa, but also when you look at the broader environment of third-party devices, devices that we're rolling out in all those things, it's -- we're seeing a lot of good momentum there.
two quick questions for me, please.
how should we be thinking about it as we map it out over the next several quarters?
we'll -- and it was accelerating through the quarter.
i will tell you at the end of the quarter kind of what we're seeing on cost and how it looks for q4 as well.
and the other thing i would point out on the trajectory is that we're just getting started in international, and most of that work is ahead of us, although the speed did tick up a bit in q1 -- or excuse me, q2, but -- and will do even more so in q3 and future quarters.
it's a little surprising that you would see the reaction that quickly, but maybe this really is -- well, you're obviously seeing it.
so we will -- we expect it to be very valuable to customers as we add selection into that one-day category.
our next question comes from ross sandler with barclays.
so it's stepped up from 9% to 21%.
but the biggest -- i would say the biggest impact in the operating profit was the addition of sales and marketing personnel in aws and also, to a lesser extent, the stock-based compensation which certainly hits across all of our businesses.
yes, so first, i'd say we're customer-focused first and primarily, but we need to have good coordination across our teams, and we grow fast, and we add new things.
it's offset by the growth in the prime program itself and the expansion of prime benefits -- or the prime program globally.
so it was a good test for us.
our next question comes from brent thill with jefferies.
so it's that increase in one-day shipping and the associated cost of additional transportation and getting capacity in place, as i mentioned earlier, new costs and things like expanding inventory, getting it closer to the customer.
we certainly have a lot of areas where we continue to invest, not the least of which is our aws business, devices, video, the global expansion of a lot of our prime benefits and things like stores and grocery delivery through whole foods, prime now and amazonfresh.
so i would say yes, we had a -- as we've mentioned in the last couple of calls, we had some lessening of expenses in some key areas last year, mostly tied to headcount growth, infrastructure and fulfillment capacity.
how do you think about making investments against that possibility or even just the possibility of it being a driver on your platform overall?
yes, eric, this is dave.
so i think some interesting areas that we're continuing to put a lot of focus into.
on the first part of your question in terms of geographical mix, i mean it's fair to assume that like a lot of our business, advertising in the north america segment is the bigger piece of that.
thank you for joining us on the call today and for your questions.
