thanks for your questions.
so unit growth was 10%.
yes, talking more about specifically india, so india, for those of you on the call last quarter, we are just heading into an uncertain period with the pn2 ruling.
and then why would the margin be materially lower in q2 as you're guiding?
we didn't put a lot of new fulfillment center capacity or infrastructure into place at least compared to q1 of last year.
for q2 guidance, we've included approximately $800 million of incremental spend related to this investment.
we do believe that although there's not explicit lift built in for the faster shipping, we have seen good order trends to -- month to date and we expect -- we built the q2 range about -- around what we've seen.
yes.
our next question comes from eric sheridan from ubs.
how much of that will you might be controlling to making decisions about ad load versus the demand to advertise among sellers on the platform?
so most of our focus has been on again adding more functionality, adding more products and adding -- reporting for businesses and advertisers so they can understand the incremental customers they're seeing on amazon through advertising with amazon.
so again, we're very happy with both the prime adoption of -- or the recognition of the prime benefits by -- at whole foods and also the purchases.
i mean i guess i'll ask it this way.
i would just say we're early on in this venture.
so again, we feel like if we work on the inputs on this business and continue to grow traffic to the site, we will have a good outcome in the advertising space.
it's because it adds selection.
on your question around media and probably more particularly the video strategy and what we're investing in, i mean, we are continuing to invest meaningfully in digital video.
so yes, on the 1-day free shipping versus the 2-day free shipping, our goal is to evolve the 2-day free shipping program into a 1-day free shipping program, and we're making strides on that.
we expect to make steady progress quickly and through the year.
and then this is dave again.
there's a number of initiatives there, so excited about what we'll be able to continue to bring to customers on that space.
so more on the 1-day shipping.
we're now over $30 billion annualized run rate, 42% fx-neutral growth and $2 billion more of revenue this q1 versus last q1.
there was a little bit of a slowdown in the quarter.
it is -- i'm going to start with the second question.
we're really going to have to see how it goes this quarter both on our pace of selection addition and expansion of 1-day and let you know probably at the end of the quarter.
i guess somewhat along those lines or at least along the lines of growth, we saw capex spending and investment in capital leases decelerate to the lowest rate that it's been in, in several years, maybe even the lowest rate ever.
but more than that, it's more than kind of bleeding through excess capacity.
we have some really, really impressive gains in efficiencies in both the warehouses and also the data centers.
just talk us through what you see as the big opportunity to invest in 1-day?
i'm sorry to do that but the -- we think that, that will open up a lot of potential purchases that -- and will open up convenience to those customers.
so we've been experimenting on a lot of different formats, as you know, 2-day, 1-day, same-day, 2-hour stores.
there's all types of points of being there for the customer when they need us at different points in their consideration set.
and again, part of this is we have the capability because we've been at this for over 20 years and continue to invest in our fulfillment capacity, our logistics capacity and also fine-tune it, but i thank you for your question.
