first one for lisa.
and how many -- what percentage of your data center customers actually look at total cost of ownership in evaluating the products?
and i'm wondering, like, what do you think that has -- impact that might have on the competitive pricing environment?
so -- i mean maybe let me give some context on sort of the data center business for us, and then i'll answer your question.
we see it across all workloads, so whether you're talking about a virtualized environment or you're talking about high-performance computing or you're talking about the enterprise sort of workloads, we see a strong performance as well as strong total cost of ownership.
and so the overall point of -- we think that rome is very well positioned.
yes.
as it relates to customer support and all that stuff, like i said, customers are much, much more familiar with the architecture in the second-generation compared to the first generation.
we're very pleased with it.
the ramp for 7-nanometer has gone very quickly in -- here in the third quarter.
and we continue to expect that, as we go into the fourth quarter, you'll see that the data center gpus will increase as well, as i mentioned in the prepared remarks, that client and graphics would also increase.
and we're seeing actually very nice momentum in commercial as well as our traditional consumer market, so we also see good sequential growth in asps there.
i don't think it's a significant driver of our business.
i had 2 questions as well.
we expect that to continue to grow as we go into q4 and into the first half of next year.
well, it's a good question, vivek.
i get asked it from time to time.
but i think we are very well balanced between top line and bottom line growth.
as it relates to epyc in the enterprise, i'm actually very encouraged with what we see in the enterprise.
so i think it's a good question, and we will certainly give you more guidance as we get into 2020. but the way to think about it at a high level is we are going through a product transition with semi-custom now.
and so it will be one of the growth drivers as we go into 2020 and beyond.
and that is fundamentally due to the new products that are ramping and obviously some benefit from the semi-custom business, it's been down slightly in q3 compared to q2.
but you also have some legacy product, right?
i think if you look at our long-term model, we had said 40 to 44 points, and we'll be exiting the year at 44, and i think very well -- positions us well as we go into 2020 and turn over more of the product portfolio to the new products.
you're up about 50%, their units were up 20% but even so.
well, i think we have in mind strong double digits.
i'm just curious, out of the gate, what kind of mix have you seen maybe skew towards the 48 and 64 core solutions?
so aaron, it's fair to say that initially, out of the chute, we are seeing a higher mix to the higher end.
we are seeing, as you might expect with that mix, that the rome asps are showing lift versus the previous first-generation epyc.
and then as just as a quick follow-up, maybe more of a model question.
so i think on the samsung base, if you look at the second half, it's approximately $100 million.
and then on the -- yes, on the semi-custom side, we had said last quarter that it would be down, let's call it, mid-30s.
okay.
and as a quick follow-up, your nearest competitor talked about pull-ins in their data center business, particularly in china, was there anything in the quarter that you thought was kind of abnormal from a customer activity standpoint on the client side or the server side?
our next question is coming from mitch steves from rbc.
there's been a lot of articles just in terms of some firmware issues, there's some software bugs and things out there.
or what are you exactly referring to?
so you're going to see that as is normal with a new platform, that we'll continue to improve the platforms over time.
so timothy, the way i would answer that question is, look, we made a set of choices, and the set of choices include process technology, they include architecture, our chiplet architecture.
we've reached the end of our question-and-answer session.
we thank you for your participation today.
