so my question is really just twofold.
and the margin guide for q3, that's approximately 43%.
i can tell you that the richer product mix, especially with the new products ramping in q3, are going to drive the gross margin.
so i guess just high level, if i assume that 2020 gross margins are going to start going up as well if you keep gaining share in server.
is that a fair assumption for the next year or so?
so look, we are very pleased with how rome is coming up.
obviously, we're going to officially launch rome on august 7. but from a customer pull standpoint, we see good customer pull.
yes.
as we go into the second half of the year, you should expect that the percentage of our revenue through the data center will increase as we ramp room.
and then i have a follow-up.
i also believe that given where we are from the product cycle standpoint, we are well positioned to grow.
they're both very significant announcements for us.
this was not originally in our guidance, and it offsets some of the headwinds that we talked about in semi-custom and in china.
i would say, that's not material.
so maybe you could talk a little bit about the momentum in the pc business into the back half and the differences between what you might see in desktop and notebook.
okay.
our next question is coming from hans mosesmann from rosenblatt securities.
you should expect that our execution on those are on track, and we have a rich 7-nanometer portfolio beyond the products that we have currently announced in the upcoming quarters.
and a follow-up if i may, you mentioned the gen 5 game console wins at microsoft and sony.
can you give us a sense, when do these start to ramp?
when they ramp, do you book the revenues as you build inventory as you did in the previous generation?
and so the percentage of semi-custom as a percent of the overall business will be lower than, for example, in the last few years.
as to the gross margin profile for that, you can expect that to be somewhat above corporate average.
obviously, i can appreciate that could be lumpy, but i'm just trying to understand how you see that.
on the cloud side, it is both, let's call it cloud streaming/gaming as well as machine learning.
the clarification, the samsung $100 million, does that come in under income statement to the revenue or is it on another line, a special item or something?
and the desktop units down is somewhat due to the seasonality in the second quarter as well as the fact that we were going through a product transition as we were preparing for the third-generation launch, which happened at the very end of the quarter.
there was a little bit in q2, and then the rest will be in q3 and q4.
obviously, the first half of the year was higher opex as a percentage of revenue.
i think it was double-digit market share, 4 to 6 quarters after you hit the 5% market share.
we'd like to get through some of that.
the product is certainly performing well.
it was part of a prior question that i don't think i heard the answer to.
our next question today is coming from ambrish srivastava from bmo capital markets.
the gap between free cash flow per share and earnings per share is massive.
or what's the right way to think about that?
we want to have our radeon graphics architecture across all those 3 segments.
let me say it this way.
i think we feel good about that target.
thank you.
that does conclude today's teleconference.
