great.
yes.
i think everyone is trying to get testing.
on the spending, the -- a lot of the costs that we're seeing are tied to this covid response.
they're using it in education with their children.
i think they're handling the additional demand, and it gives people a good time and reason to use all of their prime benefits that maybe they hadn't used as much in the past.
two, please.
pre-covid, amazon was able to had some sort of level of standard of meeting demand within a certain period of time, how low that got given the surge in demand and where you are in terms of the recovery.
so there's a lot of variance and, again, in what individual industries are seeing right now, things like video conferencing, gaming, remote learning, entertainment, all are seeing much higher growth and usage.
so i think there's going to be a mixed bag on industries.
so right now, we're -- we want to be there for our customers.
and we've been doing a good job with that, i believe.
on the fulfillment efficiency, i think you're talking about 1-day probably is the heart of your question, when will we get back to what we have seen in levels of 1-day.
it's just it's taking longer to get things into our warehouse and out of our warehouse.
on the $4 billion -- or sorry, on the q2 guidance, i think the question is, perhaps if -- how do we have a range that's above 0 if we have $4 billion of cost, is that pretty much the essence of your question?
there's also been a resumption of seller volume, especially from third parties using direct shipments to customers as companies are -- you get more capability, both in this country and other countries.
that was an $800 million benefit year-over-year in q1, and that will continue into the rest of the year.
so that's a benefit that we've seen in q1, and we'll see it remaining from here on out.
our next question comes from the line of eric sheridan with ubs.
i wanted to know if there was any way you would be able to call that out or an element of that in your overall cost structure as you do more of your own logistics over time.
so we're in a bit of a holding pattern, except for grocery in india.
and the second thing, for the revenue guidance for 2q, does that assume a slowdown in growth in may and june related to the crisis?
but we have seen an increased demand in online grocery shopping, and we have a number of ways for customers to do that, prime now, fresh and then, of course, whole foods online for delivery or pickup.
so that's up quite a bit from the run rate you've seen in some recent quarters.
it's, again, similar that you saw a lot of folks that were, when stay-at-home measures were not yet in place, were shopping in large volumes and stocking up at our stores.
i think the changes we've seen in the digital offerings will make people accustomed to those benefits and maybe advance their knowledge of what's available through music, video, alexa, certainly, communication features on our devices.
and any sort of ongoing supply chain concerns that remain worrisome for you from either a first-party perspective or from what the third-party sellers may be calling out?
can you remind me what you just -- the first question...
the third-party unit mix de-indexing a little bit as a percentage of the total this quarter.
or are you just prioritizing the first-party delivery against what's probably a limited delivery resources on the heightened demand?
and then in the release, you indicated more -- potentially more hiring above the 175,000 head count additions.
i don't have more for you on that.
so even as people are cutting back perhaps on advertising or their costs, i think this will be one area that will prove its value as it has in the past.
