overall, users come to google a lot to find the products they are looking for, but we see an opportunity to invest and make the experience better.
so we want to make sure it's comprehensive.
and so i'm excited by it, and you'll continue to see us focus in this area.
and so areas where we can offer a bundle, advertisers are interested in streaming, and so bringing that bundle together, especially to advertisers and upfronts through youtube select is a big opportunity as well.
i have 2. just first, ruth, curious if you can just talk about the cost structure a little bit more.
and so we're taking near-term steps to enhance efficiency but still investing for the long term.
one, sundar, i was wondering if you could share with us how you've seen the change in pace of customers migrating workloads to the cloud given covid?
and so for me, it's been good to see as we are scaling up, we are executing more effectively.
overall, i think there are -- i won't -- i don't know whether there's anything significant worth for me highlighting.
but your question to what does it mean for overall cost structure, we're looking at that with the place you see it now is in our capex, and the way we've been looking at it and our indication that we do expect 2020 will be lower capex on the facility side as a result.
and our next question comes from brent thill from jefferies.
for network, revenues improved toward the end of the second quarter, and we have seen a further slight improvement in july.
obviously, 3 weeks is not a quarter, but that's based on the estimates here from the end of june.
great.
maybe just characterize it for google right now.
and then secondly, we saw the youtube tv price increase, a pretty interesting business model.
and we've engaged constructively across jurisdictions.
and to me, i'm excited at the pace at which our engineering and r&d teams are working both across google and deepmind.
we have done it in certain product areas, but i see there's a bigger opportunity in the future.
i just had 2 questions.
so can you talk about the size of that area of the business relative to that $15 billion?
and then how is the faster growth in that area relative to advertising impacting your long-term profitability goals at youtube?
are we back to pre-covid levels in those areas?
they can take that and invest in, be it shipping, be it delivery, be it the customer experience.
on e-commerce, you're right, direct e-commerce providers are seeing a big inflection point.
and that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
thank you for participating.
