and it's kind of the culmination of a lot of work on adding new products and features, adding to our sales and marketing teams and having better penetration in enterprise customers and hitting a lot of very different industries.
it was strong on a unit basis.
just wondering if you could go high level what drove upside to your guidance on revenue in the quarter on the retail side.
where are you kind of in that investment cycle?
sure.
but what we saw was essentially very strong holiday performance from the middle of november on.
so a lot of good momentum there built up on the aggregation of benefits that we continue to add to the prime program, most recently the one-day -- expansion of one-day shipping.
the -- in dollar terms as opposed to percentages, we had a larger dollar increase in revenue, both year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter.
i think customers react to it.
thanks for the question.
as you said, and i think we mentioned this in the release, we're definitely continuing to improve the experience in india for customers and sellers.
so -- we also recently announced plans to create an additional 1 million jobs in india by 2025. so a lot of, i think, innovation, ideas, investment.
let me make sure the numbers are understood.
so that will continue to become more efficient.
so i would say that just as we've had other shocks to our warehouse system over the years from going to -- from media to almost every product you can imagine to having a cycle of increased third-party presence in the fba program now to one-day, we have a history here where we can look for opportunities to be more efficient and lower the -- any cost penalties as we move forward.
so yes, we do see expansion of the one-day program as we move through the year.
and we expect that to be -- start to be a little more balanced cost globally as we move into 2020.
yes.
we're focused on certainly brands as an advertising customer set and a lot of focus on providing the products and tools that are going to help customers and really inspire them.
our next question comes from the line of eric sheridan with ubs.
in q4, and we've been looking at it in both the fcs, fulfillment centers, and also aws annually.
but it's $800 -- excuse me, $800 million lower depreciation expense in the quarter, and it will be consistent.
so it's -- i should say the servers are tech infrastructure assets.
on the international.
we don't see that as a factor actually.
so there's a polarization of -- tends to be a polarization to early shipping -- or excuse me, early purchase and late purchases.
as far as the 6 days sort of time period between thanksgiving and the christmas holiday, we don't see an impact on that.
can you just talk about what the early impact there is of bundling kind of fresh into prime at this point and then just how you're thinking about your grocery strategy as you're positioned now?
so if there are any unusual factors you'd want to call out there.
second, the -- i don't want to read over a lot into your guidance, but every year for the last 5 years, you've always guided to operating profit down sequentially, and then you maybe delivered better than that, but you always guided down.
you saw that accelerate some.
we appreciate your interest in amazon, and we look forward to talking with you again next quarter.
