yes.
and so there's just so much that you could do with video games now.
it's a type of software that really wants acceleration, and nvidia's gpu acceleration is the perfect medium, perfect platform for it.
and then lastly, cloud microservice transactions really benefit high-speed networking, and that's where mellanox comes in.
but this is the future, and it's not -- there's no going back, and we just found everything accelerated.
and then we see this talk about you and arm.
and the way we push architecture is we start from the system, but we believe that the future computer company is a data center-scale company.
the computing unit is an entire data center now.
and then in the last -- in this current generation with ampere, we invented the world's first multi-instance gpu.
and because it's energy-efficient, it has the headroom to scale into very high-performance levels over time.
what does that look like as you look through the back half of the calendar year?
we are -- we're still in the ramping of the rtx generation.
one technology is a ray tracing acceleration core that makes the tracing of rays and looking for intersections between the ray and the scene -- objects in the scene super, super fast.
it's a super-complicated problem.
let me see if i can answer this one for you.
yes, we have been talking about our visibility of data center.
a100 is ramping.
it's ramping very strong into our existing installed bases but also into new markets.
your next question comes from the line of c.j.
they're sharing it with the community.
the number of different ways you could game has just really, really exploded.
and so the pc has just become such a large platform for gaming.
i think it's going to be the most amazing season ever.
and so i think it's going to be quite a huge second half of the year.
your next question comes from the line of toshiya hari of goldman sachs.
i had one for jensen and another one for colette.
thank you.
and so in the last 3 years, we've seen somewhere between 1,000 to 3,000x increase in the size of models, the computational requirement necessary to create these ai models and to deploy these ai models.
and so the #1 trend that we're probably indexed to is the breakthroughs of ai and the usefulness of ai and how people are using it.
nvidia is the only accelerated architecture that allows you to do microservices for conversational ai and other types of ai applications to scale up applications like high-performance computing, training, big data analytics to virtualize applications like workstations.
and so we're in the beginning of this multiyear cycle and the enthusiasm has been fantastic.
the guide looks to be roughly similar to that into q3.
are you more demand or more supply limited at this point?
i think people have simplified it down to almost a ridiculous level, right?
and so we put a lot of energy into that, and then the last thing i would say is that going forward, it's really about data center-scale computing.
of course, we start with building the world's best processors, and we use the world's best foundries, and we partnered them very closely to engineer the best process for us.
we put up selene in 4 weeks' time.
adopting of nvidia computing is accelerating.
you may now disconnect.
