mitch steves from rbc capital markets.
the first one is just the commentary about memory demand being -- coming in stronger and you guys are still seeing high-quality bookings in logic.
yes.
and then the question for '21 is directed at both the combined business of memory and logic or at one of those, just as an explanation.
no, so same for -- so total duv and -- deep uv and total euv units, is there a scenario where both of those are up due to high demand?
and then going from q3 to q4, where, again, as we said, we think that the 50% up is achievable in the current plans that we see.
and secondly, an important driver there, again, would be euv service gross margin.
but in terms of working capital, can you help sort of quantify the pressure a bit more for us.
or is it more likely to be into next year?
so my expectation is, and i won't give specific numbers, but my expectation is that, indeed, you will see a significant recovery of the free cash flow generation in the second half.
maybe not at that level.
last year, it was pretty spectacular.
at that point in time, yes, we do believe that -- and we can start executing on share buyback again.
so what we said, we declared an interim dividend in november of last year and we said that, that was the plan that we had.
next question is from mr. amit harchandani.
a question and a follow-up, if i may.
now when we then look at 2021, what can we see at this moment in time?
that's helpful.
okay.
that's what we're looking at.
two of them.
first one, peter, when you look into the second half with the memory strength continuing, how do you parse it between china, dram and nand, which is driving the incremental strength in memory in the second half?
is it china?
but if you would say where's the emphasis, the emphasis would be on, i would say, the more traditional dram customers in the second half.
got it.
and then a follow-up for roger.
more gradual.
and i have one quick follow-up question.
but yes, we will ship the first euv systems to dram.
and the dram road map in terms of node introduction has actually accelerated somewhat.
the majority of our shipments in 2021 on euv will be for logic.
and i mean are you on track to do this in '22 or '23?
and that level of uncertainty has clearly gone up as compared to 6 months ago what it's finally going to be.
our next question is from mr. pierre ferragu.
because of the fact that the customer base has expanded so much and they're going to make use of this more economical transition of these nodes.
and that's what's happening today.
and with the ramp of euv solid logic foundry, as you said, and the recovery in memory, it is likely that you will reach the low end of the 2025 guidance by 2021. so the question is, do you intend to update us on that anytime soon?
i just gave you this vision on what is happening today and everything -- and go back to our 2018 capital markets day, that it was not about, like in 2016, will euv work or will it not work?
and will that come through as and when you have a significant amount of new orders coming through?
it will be expensive.
so that would kind of imply revenue for the second half to be down in the low double-digit range year-over-year, despite what should be a back-end loaded year for euv on the revenue rec side.
so i mean it's going to be a mix.
i think quarter-on-quarter, there could be big differences, half-on-half could be big differences.
operator, can you close the call?
