(operator instructions) now, operator, could we have your final instructions and then the first question, please?
the next question is from mr. david mulholland.
and then i'll come back with a follow-up.
yes.
now they see that also and taking into account the order delivery times, the order lead times, then i would expect orders have to come in somewhere in q2 in order for us to make sure that in the second half of the year, we could see an increase of our memory business.
so we just have to wait and see, and i wish i had a final and definite answer.
how do you think about this on a full year basis?
david, i think the -- if you look at q1 and also if you look at q4, you see that the momentum was already building up in q4, where we were already slightly over eur 900 million, eur 950 million for the quarter.
so let me first talk about gross margin for euv and then give you the wider picture on gross margin.
but at this stage, i think it's hard to say that we're looking at a mid-market scenario for that.
and we are incurring cost there that we cannot capitalize and have to run through cost of sales, which is a bit weird because we're not selling high-na, but nonetheless, that's what the accounting will dictate you to do.
so if we get the recovery in the memory market, that will also have a significant impact on the gross margin on those 2 elements alone.
but over the quarter-over-quarter, you will see a sustained improvement in the gross margin that we have on euv service.
and a very busy year at that stage would also come with a number of scale benefits in our gross margin, better fixed cost coverage.
and secondly, as we mentioned before, the way we believe we will be able to get an increase in our capacity from the 35-ish that we have for this year to the 45, 50 that we talked about for 2021 will primarily be the reduction of cycle time.
it's krish sankar from cowen.
i had two questions.
as i said, it is really hinging on the timing of the memory recovery.
alex from goldman sachs.
and that's what you see.
i think if you split the dram and nand, and i only -- like i said, the proxy that we have is basically looking at some utilization data.
okay, that's helpful.
i'm assuming that much of that is going to be logic shipments.
i'm just wondering given that, duv shipments would probably come down during the year, what kind of a decline in duv are we looking at?
on the one hand, indeed, as you mentioned, the eur 4.5 billion for euv, and also on this call, gave you the 20% increase over the installed base, which would get you to approximately eur 3.4 billion.
yes.
yes, for 2020 -- beyond 2021, we are looking to bring the output capability above 50. now -- which is what we're doing today is really looking at how much should that be.
and that's what it is.
i think our current assessment of the market is a bit higher than it was at 2018. so if anything at the leading-edge, we're on plan.
roger, maybe on euv services gross margins, just trying to understand like how much of a headwind it has been on -- at a group level in 2019. obviously, you made a comment that it will get to -- it will still be loss-making this year.
any color on that would be helpful.
thank you.
i expect it to be at least q4, maybe even before that that it will turn positive.
next question, adithya metuku.
but when the memory goes -- comes back, then i think you need to look into 2021. i think i said it earlier, 2020, we do see strong euv demand.
and adithya, on your questions on the -- on opex, indeed, i can confirm that that what we have sort of eur 550 million r&d and the eur 140 million for sg&a.
like i said earlier, with the slope of the utilization recovery is a bit faster, a bit steeper for 3d nand, but it also come from a deeper point.
the second part was on the gross margin and multi-beam tools.
roger, (inaudible) if you look at multi -- as you look at an e-beam tool, it's a machine but it's very much -- it is compute power.
and then just briefly, your comment regarding the timing of free cash flow generation.
i do believe a further increase in numbers will improve our gross margin for 3 reasons.
one is obvious, right?
that's one element.
so i mentioned to you that in the very short term, the working capital burden that we have from further growing to, let's say, this capacity level that we talked about will be there.
but then, at a certain stage, you will see the offsetting factor of the fact that cycle times get reduced.
yes, sir.
most of my questions answered, but i just want to clarify a couple of small points.
now that's not for the full year, all right, granted, because we do expect it in the second half.
