well, we -- i mean clearly, as i said -- oh, sorry.
yes.
so in that backdrop, i think we are just being mindful in terms of making those comments.
can you just help parse through that?
i guess it sounds like maybe you're suggesting that the fiscal fourth quarter could be maybe down sequentially, which is typically up.
so that's what we mean that sometimes there can be a lag between what we are supplying to our customers versus the impact on the demand in the marketplace.
the point is, the situation is fluid, and we are really not prepared to guide you to f q4 at this point.
it's clear the uncertainty is increasing the range for the may guide, but is it also bringing down the midpoint?
and therefore, we are shifting some of the supplies from mobile to the dram side.
but of course, we'll continue to keep track of what the demand looks like.
so i'll let dave answer that.
so i think cumulative revenues, i'll have to go back and look at the exact statistic, but it was somewhere in the kind of 30%, i think it was, china revenue in aggregate.
clearly, as you said, there is a come-back-to-work kind of phenomenon going on in china, and there is economic stimulus.
demand expectations, of course, we laid out, working closely with our customers.
but with the depreciation change, in reality, what's happening is we're kind of pulling ahead some of that improvement into fiscal '20.
so some of those aspects certainly do have headwind on the cost side.
but by and large, i think those are being managed well.
i want to go back to the customer inventory dynamics and trying to understand or appreciate how you think about that potential buildup of inventory.
we have become a more valuable partner to them as well as we have expanded our product offering.
so those demand trends pre-covid were already strong.
and with covid, if anything, we are seeing that work-from-home digital economy is driving greater demand on that structure and is accelerating some of that demand.
but given your good nvme client ssd positioning, is the team also participating in the console refresh with either your nand or your ssd products?
but how long does it last, we will have to see.
while there may be some smartphone -- the weakness outside of china, while china is recovering on the smartphone front, certainly, as i said, enterprise pcs and other pcs for virtual learning, along with greater demand in the data center world, is a tailwind for us.
and the end market applications are well diversified as well, all the way from data center to pc to smartphone, networking, for dram, and micron is well positioned in these markets.
and certainly, some of these markets are seeing some shortages today, such as on the side of data center dram requirements.
and as we go through the uncertainties related to covid-19, when we come out on the other side, i'm very confident that with our broad portfolio and deep customer engagement and the technology and product capabilities, i think we will overall do just fine.
if you look at the industry, i think you'll see that tablet is in the 25% to 30% range.
our next question comes from chris danely of citigroup.
so as now, over the last couple of weeks, you see the spread of coronavirus across the globe and various actions being taken in various countries to contain the spread of coronavirus.
and again, having said that, we also see increasing demand coming from the cloud side as well as from enterprise pc applications.
that does end our session.
