two questions, if i can.
we, on youtube direct response, we've definitely seen traction there.
that's a great example of it.
what we've determined is we're going to, at this point, slow the pace of hiring.
and that's helping as we're driving a deeper look into how do you optimize within each area.
in general, i would say, the highest level of opportunities across everywhere, we see businesses thinking deeper about the shift to digital.
people who may have been hesitant to shift their budgets do -- are looking through moments like this and trying to get all that working better.
and you learn going through a moment like that, and you're thinking about the opportunity harder.
and i would say, overall, on alphabet as well, when you look at investments like waymo and bing, you can imagine, in the future, these things working well, can play a significant role.
i think that the way i would answer that is after a decade of growth, there have to be opportunities for added efficiency, and we've been focused on that for some time.
and there's been some signs from different partners or different companies that ad spending, while still down considerably, has actually improved a little bit, maybe some green shoots from the declines that you might have been referencing at the end of march.
thank you for those.
but in march, revenues began to decline and then ended the month at a mid-teens percentage decline in year-on-year revenues.
and as i said, direct response does continue to have substantial -- had substantial growth throughout the quarter, while brand began to experience a sizable headwind starting in mid-march.
i think the main point, though, is a few weeks, obviously, is not a quarter.
and then just the g&a that you mentioned, the credit provision that you said you took.
and so if anything, through moments like that, the strong foundation we have built allows us to continue to be able to invest in our long-term area.
so we continue to focus anywhere we think the actual work we are doing is based on deep technology, deep computing, deep computational scale, is the kind of investments we think still stand the test of time through things like that.
and then in terms of the geographic breakdown for youtube, we haven't broken that down, although i think, as you know well, we have a breakdown for the major regions around the world.
and our next question comes from brian nowak from morgan stanley.
maybe i can give color both on the smb and a bit on that side, too.
and you will see us do more.
and we -- the good thing about search ads and direct response on youtube as well, but search primarily, is that it's an extraordinarily effective system.
and so we are seeing tremendous traction and engagement on g suite.
i earlier talked about, you can imagine if you're a customer and you have data centers, these are fixed costs when you go through moments like this.
as a company, we've announced several efforts to support small and medium businesses, and we are going to be deeply engaged with them.
so going through a moment like this, it's very clear, part of what makes google work well is people come across a diverse range of needs.
overall, on cloud, the interest and the momentum remains strong.
one for sundar and then one for ruth.
like, are there specific factors?
and then the question for ruth, you highlighted that this has given you an opportunity to refocus on cost discipline.
i mentioned gaming earlier.
and so those are some of the longer-term opportunities.
is that just comps, easy comps?
so as i tried to be really clear in my response to heather's question, i would not extrapolate from my comments for the full quarter.
it's early, just giving you an early read, and there's really not much more to add than what i indicated.
so brand is maybe slower to change, both on the downside and the upside, and search is much faster to adapt as well.
and while, obviously, there's an impact on the economy and we are not immune to that, the engagement from advertisers across our products and with our teams has been very robust.
and that concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
