it was these memory orders coming in, which caused this order strength?
also driven by, i think, what we observed as a continued increase in utilization in the memory space of our machines.
on the gross margin indication of 40%, the cycle time impact, we've been able to manage.
the next question is from mr. david mulholland.
yes.
however, as you pointed out, when this situation lasts longer, we also could see that some of our suppliers that are also exposed to other industries that currently are not in the, perhaps, somewhat more enviable position where we are, they might be looking for help from our side.
having said that, you have to look at the -- at our integral supply chain, which includes our customers.
so we are, of course, also in discussion with our customers to say, listen, we need to look at the continuity of the supply chain from an integral point of view.
and then to the extent that you can help us understand what was euv in terms of the memory bookings?
so the trends are upward.
that's helpful.
but i would say if you would have to answer and say, where is the -- what's the emphasis, the emphasis is on dram.
our customers tell us today that they want the 35 systems.
that's not how it works.
i think the cycle time reductions -- and was one of the earlier comment, we have some absenteeism in the factory.
first one, peter, to the extent you can answer this, what do you think you would ship in terms of duv units this year either in absolute unit numbers or relative to 2019?
so there will be a reduction of deep uv systems in 2020 and that will be more than compensated by the sales number in euv.
so a, is most of your memory shipments in the last 2 quarters coming mainly from china?
the next question comes from mr. pierre ferragu.
now, of course, my next concern is what happens next.
let me first answer your question, how does it impact asml on a certain scenario?
i don't think there will be a lot of pushouts for euv orders.
i don't think it's going to be significant.
i think, ultimately, we get those parts, it's just a delay.
and if we tell you, if we give you a number and we get a significant delay in some of those short lead-time parts, we cannot ship tools and that can be significant.
so this is where it comes from, yes?
this is mitch steves from rbc.
how much revenue you may have lost in q1?
there's hardly any doubt in my mind, we will get that in q2.
and in that way, so far, we think we're still well positioned to keep up providing the service and the upgrade work that we need to do.
and then we have now over-the-shoulder 3d augmented reality support that service engineers with 6 months of training that would normally have to do this after a 2- to 3-year training, we're now operating and doing service actions with the support of experts that were sitting 6,000 kilometers away and basically providing them with 3d images, how they should do the service actions and it works.
we have been able to actually do that and we are.
then, roger, on the services side, you mentioned eur 3.4 billion is still in sight for the full year.
so for this year, i think quarter-over-quarter, what -- so if you compare the last quarter, so q4 to today, that would probably account for 0.5% in gross margin.
all right.
but just if trends were to continue, how close are we to that full utilization where they'd need to start adding capacity again?
thank you.
