you made a push into essentials and deemphasized nonessentials, as we talked about in the last earnings call.
where are we in terms of the company getting the mix between essentials versus nonessentials right in terms of offering to customers?
if there was any color on the state of affairs with either of those by geo or region of the world, that would be great.
thanks for your question.
and i would say, as we moved into late april and early may, we expected that because a lot of the sellers can toggle between mfn or fba sales that we would see mfn drop as fba picked up.
so since then, i would say it's getting closer to what we call a more normal mix.
on 1 day, we realize that our first priority is to keep our employees safe, and the second is focus on getting our capacity increased.
yes.
so a lot of those kind of trends in category performances and first-party and third-party seller growth, whether it be merchant fulfilled or fba sellers, we're seeing a lot of growth across the board, kind of similar-type broad trends when you think about the u.s. and north america as well as our international regions, in particular, our more established international regions.
they're becoming super high at the company if you ex out the covid costs.
or how do you want to deploy those into some of the newer investment areas?
we're getting progressively better, but we're also balancing what is going to be very stepped up demand and capacity in q3 and q4.
on grocery, we've also greatly expanded our grocery delivery capacity, and that's probably ahead of schedule.
obviously, india is the biggest one, but also, to a lesser extent, the middle east, brazil, turkey and australia are recent addition.
but if you look at what happened in q2, it was essentially just the much higher volumes than we had anticipated or had on a run rate.
the one i'd point to is studios.
so the list is short on things that we're slowing down on, i would say.
i have 2. brian, first, just curious about your overall thoughts on how the e-commerce adoption curve has been shifted here over the next few years.
let me start with that second one.
so that's a good sign that we're happy about.
so i would say that the -- if you look at the growth rate, that translates into somewhere in the 24% to 33% growth rate in q3.
so i don't want to make too many sweeping comments on that right now.
our next question comes from brent thill with jefferies.
i was curious if you could just expand on aws.
i'll give you the backlog number.
a couple of questions.
well, we still see strong demand.
but the -- from our vantage point, the prime members still continue to order more frequently and in larger basket sizes.
so i think, again, just as we think about kind of the innovation components and commitments to solving kind of problems and challenges for customers, it's pretty exciting for us to be able to work with them and bring that vision to fruition in the years ahead.
we're not back to where we were pre-covid.
we don't think we're going to be back in the short run, but we will continue to improve it.
there's -- before the covid outbreak, the positives were generally amzl costs -- delivery costs were becoming more efficient.
it's probably more tied to the addition of 1-day shipping.
